
page 186
Communications and
chapter
8
Networks
reset page 469
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Blue Planet Studio/Shutterstock
page 187
Why should I read this chapter?
Communication networks are the backbone of nearly every aspect of modern
digital life. In the future, telepresence (the ability to fully
experience the reality of a different place without actually being there)
will be commonplace. For example, doctors will routinely perform surgery
on patients located halfway around the world!
Khakimullin Aleksandr/Shutterstock
This chapter covers the things you need to know to be prepared for
this ever-changing digital world, including:
Mobile computing—become a digital road warrior using 4G and 5G data
networks and GPS.
Wireless networks—use your digital devices in smarter and safer ways
by understanding Wi-Fi, satellites, and Bluetooth.
Wired networks—learn about coaxial and fiber-optic cables so you can
make smart decisions about home Internet connections.
Learning Objectives
After you have read this chapter, you should be able to:
1. Explain connectivity, the wireless revolution, and
communication systems.
reset page 470
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
2. Describe wireless and physical communication channels.
3. Differentiate between connection devices and services,
including cellular, dial-up, DSL, cable, and satellite.
4. Describe data transmission factors, including bandwidth
and protocols.
5. Define networks and key network terminology, including
network interface cards and network operating systems.
6. Describe different types of networks, including local,
home, wireless, personal, metropolitan, and wide area
networks.
7. Describe network architectures, including topologies and
strategies.
8. Explain the organization issues related to Internet
technologies and network security.
page 188
Introduction
“Hi,
I’m Michael, and I’m a network administrator. I’d like
to talk with you about computer communications and networks. I’d
also like to talk about technologies that support mobile computing
including global positioning systems, Wi-Fi, and 4G and 5G
networks.”
At one time, network-connected computers were only found at the largest
businesses and universities. Today, with cell phones, we carry network-
connected computers in our pockets. Smart appliances in your kitchen mean
your refrigerator may be connected to the Internet. The Internet of Things
reset page 471
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
means your watch or your thermostat may be using networks to communicate.
The communications and information options we have at our fingertips have
changed how we react and relate to the world around us.
Scharfsinn/Shutterstock
As the power and flexibility of our communication systems have
expanded, the sophistication of the networks that support these systems
has become increasingly critical and complex. The network technologies
that handle our cellular, business, and Internet communications come in
many different forms. Satellites, broadcast towers, telephone lines, even
buried cables and fiber optics carry our telephone messages, e-mail, and
text messages. These different networks must be able to efficiently and
effectively integrate with one another.
To efficiently and effectively use computers, you need to understand
the concept of connectivity, wireless networking, and the elements that
make up network and communications systems. Additionally, you need to
understand the basics of communications channels, connection devices, data
transmission, network types, network architectures, and organizational
networks.
Communications
Computer communications is the process of sharing data,
programs, and information between two or more computers. We
have discussed numerous applications that depend on
communication systems to share data among devices, including
Texting—provides very efficient direct text communication
between individuals using short electronic messages.
reset page 472
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
E-mail—provides a fast, efficient alternative to
traditional mail by sending and receiving electronic
documents.
Videoconferencing—provides an alternative to meeting in
person using audio communications (such as a phone call)
often with video to see the people you talk to.
Electronic commerce—buying and selling goods
electronically.
In this chapter, we will focus on the communication
systems that support these and many other applications.
Connectivity, the wireless revolution, and communication
systems are key concepts and technologies for the 21st
century.
Connectivity
Connectivity is a concept related to using computer networks
to link people and resources. For example, connectivity means
that you can connect your cell phone to other devices and
information sources from almost anywhere. With this
connection, you are linked to the world of larger computers
and the Internet. This includes hundreds of thousands of web
servers and their extensive information resources. Thus,
being able to efficiently and effectively use computers
becomes a matter of knowing not only about connectivity
through networks to cell phones, but also about larger
computer systems and their information resources.
page 189
The Wireless Revolution
The single most dramatic change in connectivity and
communications since the development of the Internet has been
the widespread use of mobile devices like cell phones and
reset page 473
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
tablets with fast wireless Internet connectivity. Students,
parents, teachers, businesspeople, and others routinely talk
and communicate with these devices. It is estimated that over
4.6 billion cell phones are in use worldwide. This wireless
technology allows individuals to stay connected with one
another from almost anywhere at any time.
So what’s the revolution? Although wireless technology
was originally used primarily for voice communications,
today’s mobile computers support e-mail, web access, social
networking, and a variety of Internet applications. In
addition, wireless technology allows a wide variety of nearby
devices to communicate with one another without any physical
connection. Wireless communications allows you to share a
high-speed printer, share data files, and collaborate on
working documents with a nearby co-worker without having your
computers connected by cables or telephone. High-speed
Internet wireless technology allows individuals to connect to
the Internet and share information from almost anywhere in
the world. (See Figure 8-1.) The revolution has just begun,
and where it goes from here will be decided by you and others
who understand the power of communication systems.
Figure 8-1 Wireless revolution
reset page 474
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock
Communication Systems
Communication systems are electronic systems that transmit
data from one location to another. Whether wired or wireless,
every communication system has four basic elements. (See
Figure 8-2.)
Sending and receiving devices. These are often a computer
or specialized communication device. They originate (send)
as well as accept (receive) messages in the form of data,
information, and/or instructions.
Connection devices. These devices act as an interface
between the sending and receiving devices and the
communication channel. They convert outgoing messages into
packets that can travel across the communication channel.
They also reverse the process for incoming messages.
Data transmission specifications. These are rules page 190
and procedures that coordinate the sending and
receiving devices by precisely defining how the message
will be sent across the communication channel.
Communication channel. This is the actual connecting or
transmission medium that carries the message. This medium
can be a physical wire or cable, or it can be wireless.
Figure 8-2 Basic elements of a communication system
Sergey Peterman/Shutterstock
reset page 475
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Description
For example, if you wanted to send an e-mail to a friend,
you could create and send the message using your cell phone,
the sending device. Your modem is on a microchip located
inside your cell phone. It functions as the connection device
that would modify and format the message so that it could
travel efficiently across communication channels, such as
cell phone towers. The specifics describing how the message
is modified, reformatted, and sent would be described in the
data transmission specifications. After your message traveled
across the channel, a connection device, such as a modem
connected to a desktop computer, would reformat it so that it
could be displayed on your friend’s computer, the receiving
device. (Note: This example presents the basic communication
system elements involved in sending e-mail. It does not and
is not intended to demonstrate all the specific steps and
equipment involved in an e-mail delivery system.)
ethics
As eavesdropping tools become more sophisticated, there is concern that
law enforcement and government agencies will monitor everyone’s
Internet and cell phone activity. In the private sector, companies are
increasingly using network tools and software to monitor the activity
of their employees. Many websites also track your activity, and
government officials have often requested these records during the
course of an investigation. Some believe that it is unethical for
government and businesses to engage in such monitoring and tracking. Do
you agree?
concept check
Define computer communications and connectivity.
What is the wireless revolution?
reset page 476
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Describe the four elements of every communication system.
Communication Channels
Communication channels are an essential element of every
communication system. These channels actually carry the data
from one computer to another. There are two categories of
communciation channels, wireless and wired. Wireless
communications send information through the air, such as when
you use a cell phone. Wired communications require a physical
connection and are more common with desktop computers.
Wireless Connections
Wireless connections do not use a solid substance to connect
sending and receiving devices. Rather, they move data through
the air.
Most wireless connections use radio waves to communicate.
For example, cell phones and many other Internet-enabled
devices use radio waves to place telephone calls and to
connect to the Internet. Primary technologies used for
wireless connections are cellular, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi,
microwave, WiMax, and satellite connections.
Cellular communication uses multiple antennae (cell
towers) to send and receive data within relatively small
geographic regions (cells). Most cell phones and other
mobile devices use cellular networks.
Bluetooth is a short-range radio communication standard
that transmits data over short distances of up to
approximately 33 feet. Bluetooth is widely used for
wireless headsets, printer connections, and handheld
devices.
Wi-Fi (wireless fidelity) uses high-frequency radio
signals to transmit data. A number of standards for Wi-Fi
reset page 477
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
exist, and each can send and receive data at a different
speed. (See Figure 8-3.) Most home and business wireless
networks use Wi-Fi.
Microwave communication uses high-frequency radio waves. It
is sometimes referred to as line-of-sight communication
because microwaves can only travel in a straight page 191
line. Because the waves cannot bend with the
curvature of the earth, they can be transmitted only over
relatively short distances. Thus, microwave is a good
medium for sending data between buildings in a city or on a
large college campus. For longer distances, the waves must
be relayed by means of microwave stations with microwave
dishes or antennas. (See Figure 8-4.)
WiMax (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access)
is a wireless standard that extends the range of Wi-Fi
networks using microwave connections. WiMax is commonly
used by universities and others to extend the capability of
existing Wi-Fi networks.
Satellite communication uses satellites orbiting about
22,000 miles above the earth as microwave relay stations.
Many of these are offered by Intelsat, the International
Telecommunications Satellite Consortium, which is owned by
114 governments and forms a worldwide communication system.
Satellites orbit at a precise point and speed above the
earth. They can amplify and relay microwave signals from
one transmitter on the ground to another. Satellites can be
used to send and receive large volumes of data. Uplink is a
term relating to sending data to a satellite. Downlink
refers to receiving data from a satellite. The major
drawback to satellite communication is that bad weather can
sometimes interrupt the flow of data.
One of the most interesting applications of satellite
communications is for global positioning. A network of
satellites owned and managed by the Department of Defense
continuously sends location information to earth. Global
reset page 478
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
positioning system (GPS) devices use that information to
uniquely determine the geographic location of the device.
Available in many automobiles to provide navigational
support, these systems are often mounted into the dash with
a monitor to display maps and speakers to provide spoken
directions. Most of today’s cell phones and tablets use
GPS technology for handheld navigation. (See Figure 8-5.)
Standard Maximum speed
802.11g 54 Mbps
802.11n 600 Mbps
802.11ac 2.6 Gbps
802.11ax 10.5 Gbps
Figure 8-3 Wi-Fi standards
Figure 8-4 Microwave dish
Olgaviare/Getty Images
reset page 479
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 8-5 GPS navigation
DenPhotos/Shutterstock
Unlike radio waves, infrared uses infrared light waves to
communicate over short distances. Like microwave
transmissions, infrared is a line-of-sight communication.
Because light waves can only travel in a straight line,
sending and receiving devices must be in clear view of one
another without any obstructions blocking that view. One of
the most common infrared devices is the TV remote control.
community
Much of the developing world does not have access to the Internet.
Amazon’s Project Kuiper looks to change that by launching a network of
over 3,000 low-orbit satellites to provide Internet to the unserved and
underserved communities of the world. Proponents of the network suggest
that the citizens of developing nations will be greatly benefited by
the essential services that the Internet can provide, such as education
and health care. Opponents point out that the majority of developing
nation citizens cannot afford the devices necessary to connect to the
Internet. What do you think? Will bringing the Internet to developing
countries help the average citizen, or will this only benefit the
wealthiest in these countries?
Physical Connections
Physical connections use a solid medium to connect sending
and receiving devices. These connections include twisted-
pair, coaxial, and fiber-optic cables.
Fiber-optic cable transmits data as pulses of light through
tiny tubes of glass. (See Figure 8-6.) The data
transmission speeds of fiber-optic cables are incredible;
recently, speeds of 1 petabit per second were measured (a
petabit is 1 million gigabits). Compared to coaxial cable,
it is lighter, faster, and more reliable at transmitting
reset page 480
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
data. Fiber-optic cable is rapidly replacing twisted-pair
cable telephone lines.
Coaxial cable, a high-frequency transmission cable,
replaces the multiple wires of telephone lines with a
single solid-copper core. (See Figure 8-7.) In terms of the
number of telephone connections, a coaxial cable has over
80 times the transmission capacity of twisted pair. Coaxial
cable is used to deliver television signals as well as to
connect computers in a network.
Twisted-pair cable consists of pairs of copper wire that
are twisted together. Both landline telephone lines and
Ethernet cables use twisted pair. (See Figure 8-8.)
Ethernet cables are often used in networks and to connect a
variety of components to the system unit.
page 192
Figure 8-6 Fiber-optic cable
cigdem/Shutterstock
Figure 8-7 Coaxial cable
ericlefrancais/Shutterstock
reset page 481
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 8-8 Ethernet cable
cybrain/Shutterstock
concept check
What are communication channels? List three physical connections.
What is cellular communication? WiFi? Microwave communication? WiMax?
What is satellite communication? GPS? Infrared?
Connection Devices
At one time nearly all computer communication used telephone
lines. However, because the telephone was originally designed
for voice transmission, telephone lines were designed to
carry analog signals, which are continuous electronic waves.
Computers, in contrast, send and receive digital signals.
(See Figure 8-9.) These represent the presence or absence of
an electronic pulse—the binary signals of 1s and 0s we
mentioned in Chapter 5. To convert the digital signals to
analog signals and vice versa, you need a modem.
Figure 8-9 Analog and digital signals
reset page 482
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Designua/Shutterstock
Modems
The word modem is short for modulator-demodulator. Modulation
is the name of the process of converting from digital to
analog. Demodulation is the process of converting from analog
to digital. The modem enables digital personal computers to
communicate across different media, including telephone
wires, cable lines, and radio waves.
The speed with which modems transmit data varies. This
speed, called transfer rate, is typically measured in
millions of bits (megabits) per second (Mbps). (See Figure
8-10.) The higher the speed, the faster you can send and
receive information. For example, to download a complete
full-length motion picture (700 MB) on a 1.5-Mbps modem would
take about 1 hour. Using a 10.0-Mbps modem would take about 9
minutes.
Unit Speed
Mbps Million bits per second
Gbps Billion bits per second
Tbps Trillion bits per second
Figure 8-10 Typical transfer rates
There are three commonly used types of modems: DSL, cable,
and wireless. (See Figure 8-11.)
A DSL (digital subscriber line) modem uses standard phone
lines to create a high-speed connection directly to your
phone company’s offices. These devices are usually
external and connect to the system unit using either a USB
or an Ethernet port.
A cable modem uses the same coaxial cable as your
television. Like a DSL modem, a cable modem creates high-
reset page 483
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
speed connections using the system unit’s USB or Ethernet
port.
A wireless modem is also known as a WWAN (wireless wide
area network) modem. Almost all computers today have built-
in wireless modems. For those that do not, wireless adapter
cards are available that plug into USB or special card
ports.
page 193
Figure 8-11 Basic types of modems
(left): Pakpoom Phummee/Shutterstock; (middle): pryzmat/Shutterstock;
(right): Alex Melnick/Shutterstock
tips
Is 5G right for you? What are the reasons to upgrade? There are
a few factors to consider.
1
Is 5G available in your area? If you live and work in an area
where a 5G network is unavailable, a 5G phone will not improve
your cell phone experience. On the other hand, if your area has
strong 5G coverage, you may want to upgrade to a 5G phone to take
advantage of faster network speeds. Check with your cell phone
provider to find out what is available in your area.
reset page 484
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
2
How do you use the Internet on your phone? If you are using
your cell phone Internet connection mostly for browsing the web
and answering e-mails, a faster Internet connection may not offer
much of an improvement. However, if you are doing data-intensive
tasks—like streaming videos, videoconferencing, and playing games
over the Internet—you may want to consider upgrading to 5G.
3
Does your cellular service provider offer home Internet? 5G
networks have Internet speeds that rival the speeds of traditional
Internet service providers (ISPs). Some cellular service providers
are offering 5G services that will replace your home ISP with
competitive rates and bundling options. Contact your cellular
service provider to see if this is an option for you!
Connection Service
For years, large corporations have been leasing special high-
speed lines from telephone companies. Originally, these were
copper lines, known as T1 lines, that could be combined to
form higher-capacity options known as T3 or DS3 lines. These
lines have largely been replaced by faster optical carrier
(OC) lines.
Although the special high-speed lines are too costly for
most individuals, Internet service providers (as discussed in
Chapter 2) do provide affordable connections. For years,
individuals relied on dial-up services using existing
telephones and telephone modems to connect to the Internet.
This type of service has been replaced by higher-speed
connection services, including cellular, DSL, cable, and
satellite services.
Cellular service providers, including Verizon, AT&T,
Sprint, and T-Mobile, support voice and data transmission
to wireless devices using cellular networks. The progress
of mobile telecommunication is measured in generations. The
first generation (1G) started in the 1980s and has
progressed to today’s fifth generation (5G):
First generation (1G) could only transmit analog signals
used for voice communications.
reset page 485
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Second generation (2G) used radio signals for cellular
calls and introduced texting.
Third generation (3G) improved data speeds and
introduced widespread use of the Internet on cell phones.
Fourth generation (4G) uses Long Term Evolution (LTE)
connections for increased Internet speeds, making
streaming videos and music popular on cell phones.
Fifth generation (5G) is the newest and fastest network,
with speeds rivaling home Internet connections. The 5G
network is a new technology and may not be available yet
in your area as service providers update old antennae and
add new antennae to the network.
Digital subscriber line (DSL) service is provided by
telephone companies using existing telephone lines to
provide high-speed connections. ADSL (asymmetric digital
subscriber line) is one of the most widely used types of
DSL. DSL is much faster than dial-up.
Cable service is provided by cable television companies
using their existing television cables. These connections
are usually faster than DSL.
Fiber-optic service (FiOS) is showing up in some areas,
but it is a new technology and not widely available.
Current providers of FiOS include Google and Verizon with
speeds faster than cable or DSL connections.
Satellite connection services use satellites to provide
wireless connections. Although slower than DSL and cable
modem, satellite connections are available almost anywhere
using a satellite-receiving disk.
To learn more about how you can use mobile communications,
see Making IT Work for You: The Mobile Office on pages 194
and 195.
page 194
reset page 486
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Making IT work for you
THE MOBILE OFFICE
With the proper devices and software, you can take your
work away from the office and move your studies outside
the classroom. Mobile tools can allow you to set up an
effective workspace at a coffee shop, in an airport, or at
the kitchen table. A mobile office gives you the
flexibility to get work done whenever you have a spare
moment, wherever you may be.
Two of the most important features of the mobile office
are your Internet connection when on the go and the tools
to replicate the resources of working in person. For
accessing the Internet, there are three popular options:
mobile hotspot devices, personal hotspots, and public Wi-
Fi.
Mobile Hotspot Device
Many cell phone service providers offer stand-alone devices that
connect to a 4G or 5G network and allow multiple devices near it
to access the Internet via Wi-Fi connection. Most home office
setups use a lot of data on your data connection. When choosing a
hotspot device from a cell phone service provider, consider the
provider’s data options and pricing.
reset page 487
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Mobile hotspot devices, such as the Nighthawk LTE Mobile Hotspot Router,
create an Internet-connected Wi-Fi network on the go.
Virrage Images/Shutterstock
Personal Hotspot
Many cell phones can act as mobile hotspot devices, allowing
nearby tablets and laptops to connect to the Internet. Sometimes
called tethering, devices can connect to the cell phone via
Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, or USB cable and, through that connection,
access the Internet. Personal hotspots offer a simple mobile
Internet solution without the additional cost of purchasing a
mobile hotspot device. Unfortunately, using a personal hotspot
will drain your cell phone’s battery more quickly, will increase
your phone’s data plan usage, and may require some extra effort
to set up. Contact your cell phone provider to learn about the
costs and processes associated with setting up a personal hotspot.
reset page 488
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
A personal hotspot allows devices to connect to the Internet over your
phone’s data plan.
Aleksey Khilko/Shutterstock
Public Wi-Fi
Even if you can’t use the Internet on the go—you can probably get
online when you arrive. Many public locations, especially
airports, hotels, and coffee shops, offer free or low-cost
Internet connections. Not all pubic Wi-Fi Internet connections are
safe. Only connect to networks that are offered from locations you
trust.
page 195
An Internet connection is valueless if you do’t have the right software
to take advantage of it. The two most common mobile office tools are
cloud storage to have access to your files from anywhere and
videoconferencing software to communicate and collaborate with your
teammates.
Cloud Storage
When on the go, you want your documents to be available, up to
date, and secure. With an Internet connection, you can connect to
cloud storage services that will hold your important documents.
Through cloud storage, you can collaborate with co-workers and
always be confident you have the most up-to-date version of the
document. Further, if you lose or damage your laptop, your
documents are stored in the cloud and will not be lost. Finally,
cloud storage synchs across multiple devices, so you can review a
spreadsheet on your cell phones, make changes on your laptop, and
then share it with co-workers on your tablet. Popular cloud
services are Google Drive, Microsoft OneDrive, and Dropbox.
reset page 489
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Dropbox is a cloud storage service that works easily with multiple
operating systems.
Cyberstock/Alamy Stock Photo
Videoconferencing
Videoconferencing can allow you to have a face-to-face meeting
without being in the same room—or even the same country. A
camera, microphone, and speakers will be needed to videoconference
—most cell phones, tablets, and laptops come with these
accessories.
Here are the most popular videoconferencing apps:
Skype and Teams are two videoconferencing applications from
Microsoft. Skype is a straightforward videoconferencing tool that
is easy to set up and use. Teams is a more complex tool that works
seamlessly with other Microsoft products such as OneDrive and
Microsoft Office 365.
FaceTime is a videoconferencing application from Apple that has
a simple interface and is integrated into all Apple devices.
Zoom is a popular videoconferencing app that offers many
features valuable to large meetings and online classrooms.
Meet is Google’s solution to videoconferencing. It includes
many features to organize and effectively run a meeting with
several participants, including extensive integration with other
Google apps, such as Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Drive, and
Google Workspace.
reset page 490
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
The Microsoft videoconferencing tool, Skype, is a popular way to
communicate with friends, family, and co-workers.
Andrey_Popov/Shutterstock
page 196
concept check
What is the function of a modem? Compare the three types of modems.
What is a connection service? Compare the five high-speed connection
services.
Describe the five generations of mobile telecommunications.
Data Transmission
Several factors affect how data is transmitted. These factors
include bandwidth and protocols.
Bandwidth
reset page 491
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Bandwidth is a measurement of the width or capacity of the
communication channel. Effectively, it means how much
information can move across the communication channel in a
given amount of time. For example, to transmit text
documents, a slow bandwidth would be acceptable. However, to
effectively transmit video and audio, a wider bandwidth is
required. There are four categories of bandwidth:
Voiceband, also known as low bandwidth, is used for
landline telephone communication. At one time, personal
computers with telephone modems and dial-up service used
this bandwidth. Although effective for transmitting text
documents, it is too slow for many types of transmission,
including high-quality audio and video.
Medium band is used in special leased lines to connect
midrange computers and mainframes, as well as to transmit
data over long distances. This bandwidth is capable of
very-high-speed data transfer.
Broadband is widely used for DSL, cable, and satellite
connections to the Internet. Several users can
simultaneously use a single broadband connection for high-
speed data transfer.
Baseband is widely used to connect individual computers
that are located close to one another, such as the
computers in an office building. Like broadband, it is able
to support high-speed transmission. Unlike broadband,
however, baseband can only carry a single signal at a time.
tips
One of the best things about a cell phone is its network
connection. However, always being connected can be stressful.
To customize your cell phone’s notifications and take a break
from your connectivity, consider the following:
reset page 492
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
1
Mute notifications. When giving a presentation or trying to spend
some time away from your phone, it can be nice to mute your
phone’s notifications for awhile. Here’s how to do it.
For Android cell phones: Swipe down from the top of the screen
to display the notification shade and turn on the Do Not
Disturb button.
For iOS cell phones: Swipe down from the top right corner of
the screen to display the control center and tap the crescent
moon button.
2
Disable an app’s notifications. If you have an app that is
annoying you with notifications, you can limit or disable its
ability to send notifications.
For Android cell phones: Click on the Settings icon from the
home screen, then choose Apps & Notifications. Tap on
Notifications and App Notifications. From here, you can click
on an app to customize its notification settings.
For iOS cell phones: Tap on the Settings icon from the home
screen, then select Notifications. A list of your apps, with a
toggle switch next to each app, will be displayed. Switch the
toggle switch to off to disable that app’s notifications.
Protocols
For data transmission to be successful, sending and receiving
devices must follow a set of communication rules for the
exchange of information. These rules for exchanging data
between computers are known as protocols.
As discussed in Chapter 2, https, or hypertext transfer
protocol secure, is widely used to protect the transfer of
sensitive information. Another widely used Internet protocol
is TCP/IP (transmission control protocol/Internet
protocol). The essential features of this protocol involve
(1) identifying sending and receiving devices and (2)
breaking information into small parts, or packets, for
transmission across the Internet.
Identification: Every computer on the Internet has a unique
numeric address called an IP address (Internet protocol
reset page 493
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
address). Similar to the way a postal service uses page 197
addresses to deliver mail, the Internet uses IP
addresses to deliver e-mail and to locate websites. Because
these numeric addresses are difficult for people to
remember and use, a system was developed to automatically
convert text-based addresses to numeric IP addresses. This
system uses a domain name server (DNS) that converts text-
based addresses to IP addresses. For example, the URL
www.mhhe.com is easy for a person to remember and enter,
but before a connection can be made, a DNS converts this to
an IP address, such as 65.39.69.50, that computers can use
to locate that website on the Internet. (See Figure 8-12.)
Packetization: Information sent or transmitted across the
Internet usually travels through numerous interconnected
networks. Before the message is sent, it is reformatted or
broken down into small parts called packets. Each packet is
then sent separately over the Internet, possibly traveling
different routes to one common destination. At the
receiving end, the packets are reassembled into the correct
order.
Figure 8-12 DNS converts text-based addresses to numeric IP
addresses
Gravvi/Shutterstock
concept check
reset page 494
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
What is bandwidth? Describe the four categories.
What are protocols? What is the standard protocol for the Internet?
Define TCP/IP, IP address, and packets.
Networks
A computer network is a communication system that connects
two or more computing devices so that they can exchange
information and share resources. Networks can be set up in
different arrangements to suit users’ needs. (See Figure 8-
13.)
reset page 495
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 8-13 Computer network
Gravvi/Shutterstock
Description
Terms
There are a number of specialized terms that describe
computer networks. These terms include
Node—any device that is connected to a network. It could
be a computer, printer, or data storage device.
Client—a node that requests and uses resources available
from other nodes. Typically, a client is a user’s personal
reset page 496
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
computing device.
Server—a node that shares resources with other page 198
nodes. Dedicated servers specialize in performing
specific tasks. Depending on the specific task, they may be
called an application server, communication server,
database server, file server, printer server, or web
server.
Directory server—a specialized server that manages
resources, such as user accounts, for an entire network.
Host—any computer system connected to a network that
provides access to its resources.
Router—a node that forwards or routes data packets from
one network to their destination in another network.
Switch—central node that coordinates the flow of data by
sending messages directly between sender and receiver
nodes. A hub previously filled this purpose by sending a
received message to all connected nodes, rather than just
the intended node.
Network interface cards (NICs)—as discussed in Chapter 5,
these are expansion cards located within the system unit
that connect the computer to a network. Sometimes referred
to as a LAN adapter.
Network operating systems (NOSs)—control and page 199
coordinate the activities of all computers and
other devices on a network. These activities include
electronic communication and the sharing of information and
resources.
Network administrator—a computer specialist responsible
for efficient network operations and implementation of new
networks.
A network may consist only of personal computers, or it
may integrate personal computers or other devices with larger
computers. Networks can be controlled by all nodes working
reset page 497
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
together equally or by specialized nodes coordinating and
supplying all resources. Networks may be simple or complex,
self-contained, or dispersed over a large geographic area.
concept check
What is a computer network? What are nodes, clients, servers,
directory servers, hosts, routers, and switches?
What is the function of an NIC and an NOS?
What is a network administrator?
Network Types
Clearly, different types of channels—wired or wireless—
allow different kinds of networks to be formed. Telephone
lines, for instance, may connect communications equipment
within the same building or within a home. Networks also may
be citywide and even international, using both cable and
wireless connections. Local area, metropolitan area, and wide
area networks are distinguished by the size of the geographic
area they serve.
Local Area Networks
Networks with nodes that are in close physical proximity—
within the same building, for instance—are called local area
networks (LANs). Typically, LANs span distances less than a
mile and are owned and operated by individual organizations.
LANs are widely used by colleges, universities, and other
types of organizations to link personal computers and to
share printers and other resources. For a simple LAN, see
Figure 8-14.
reset page 498
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 8-14 Local area network
Gravvi/Shutterstock
Description
The LAN represented in Figure 8-14 is a typical
arrangement and provides two benefits: economy and
flexibility. People can share costly equipment. For instance,
the four personal computers share the high-speed laser
printer and the file server, which are expensive pieces of
hardware. Other equipment or nodes also may be added to the
LAN—for instance, more personal computers, a mainframe
computer, or optical disc storage devices. Additionally, the
network gateway is a device that allows one LAN to be linked
to other LANs or to larger networks. For example, the LAN of
one office group may be connected to the LAN of another
office group.
There are a variety of different standards or ways in
which nodes can be connected to one another and ways in which
reset page 499
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
their communications are controlled in a LAN. The most common
standard is known as Ethernet. LANs using this standard are
sometimes referred to as Ethernet LANs.
Home Networks
Although LANs have been widely used within organizations for
years, they are now being commonly used by individuals in
their homes and apartments. These LANs, called home networks,
allow different computers to share resources, including a
common Internet connection. Computers can be connected in a
variety of ways, including electrical wiring, telephone
wiring, and special cables. One of the simplest ways,
however, is without cables, or wireless.
page 200
Wireless LAN
A wireless local area network is typically referred to as a
wireless LAN (WLAN). It uses radio frequencies to connect
computers and other devices. All communications pass through
the network’s centrally located wireless access point or
base station. This access point interprets incoming radio
frequencies and routes communications to the appropriate
devices.
Wireless access points that provide Internet access are
widely available in public places such as coffee shops,
libraries, bookstores, colleges, and universities. These
access points are known as hotspots and typically use Wi-Fi
technology. Most mobile computing devices have an internal
wireless network card to connect to hotspots. If your mobile
device does not have an internal wireless network card, you
can use an external wireless adapter (see Figure 8-15) that
plugs into your computer’s USB port or PC card slot.
reset page 500
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 8-15 Wireless adapter
HaraldBiebel/Getty Images
Personal Area Networks
A personal area network (PAN) is a type of wireless network
that works within a very small area—your immediate
surroundings. PANs connect cell phones to headsets, keyboards
to cell phones, and so on. These networks make it possible
for wireless devices to interact with each other. The most
popular PAN technology is Bluetooth, with a maximum range of
around 33 feet. Virtually all wireless peripheral devices
available today use Bluetooth, including the controllers on
popular game systems like the PlayStation and Wii.
Metropolitan Area Networks
Metropolitan area networks (MANs) span distances up to 100
miles. These networks are frequently used as links between
office buildings that are located throughout a city.
page 201
Unlike a LAN, a MAN is typically not owned by a single
organization. Rather, it is owned either by a group of
organizations or by a single network service provider that
provides network services for a fee.
tips
reset page 501
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Do you use your laptop to connect to wireless networks at
school or in public places such as coffee shops, airports, or
hotels? If so, it is important to use caution to protect your
computer and your privacy. Here are a few suggestions:
1
Use a firewall. A personal firewall is essential when connecting
your computer directly to public networks. Some firewalls, such as
the one built into Windows 8 and Windows 10, will ask whether a
new network should be treated as home, work, or a public network.
2
Avoid fake hotspots. Thieves are known to set up rogue (or fake)
hotspots in popular areas where users expect free Wi-Fi, such as
coffee shops and airports. Because many operating systems
automatically connect to the access point with the strongest
signal, you could be connecting to the one set up by the thief.
Always confirm that you are connecting to the access point of that
establishment. Ask an employee if you are unsure.
3
Turn off file sharing. Turning off file-sharing features in your
operating system will ensure that no one can access or modify your
files.
4
Check if connection is encrypted. If the hotspot you are using
is protected with a password, then it is likely encrypted. If it
is not, then be very careful with websites you visit and the
information you provide.
Wide Area Networks
Wide area networks (WANs) are countrywide and worldwide
networks. These networks provide access to regional service
(MAN) providers and typically span distances greater than 100
miles. They use microwave relays and satellites to reach
users over long distances—for example, from Los Angeles to
Paris. Of course, the widest of all WANs is the Internet,
which spans the entire globe.
The primary difference between a PAN, LAN, MAN, and WAN is
the geographic range. Each may have various combinations of
hardware, such as personal computers, midrange computers,
mainframes, and various peripheral devices.
For a summary of network types, see Figure 8-16.
reset page 502
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Type Description
LAN Local area network; located within close proximity
Home Local area network for home and apartment use;
typically wireless
WLAN Wireless local area network; all communication passes
through access point
PAN Personal area network; connects digital devices, such
as Bluetooth headphones
MAN Metropolitan area network; typically spans cities with
coverage up to 100 miles
WAN Wide area network for countrywide or worldwide
coverage
Figure 8-16 Types of networks
concept check
What is a LAN? Network gateway? Ethernet? Home network?
What is a wireless network? Wireless access point? Hotspot?
What is a PAN? MAN? WAN?
Network Architecture
Network architecture describes how a network is arranged and
how resources are coordinated and shared. It encompasses a
variety of different network specifics, including network
topologies and strategies. Network topology describes the
physical arrangement of the network. Network strategies
define how information and resources are shared.
page 202
reset page 503
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Topologies
A network can be arranged or configured in several different
ways. This arrangement is called the network’s topology. The
most common topologies are
Bus network—each device is connected to a common cable
called a bus or backbone, and all communications travel
along this bus.
Ring network—each device is connected to two other
devices, forming a ring. (See Figure 8-17.) When a message
is sent, it is passed around the ring until it reaches the
intended destination.
Star network—each device is connected directly to a
central network switch. (See Figure 8-18.) Whenever a node
sends a message, it is routed to the switch, which then
passes the message along to the intended recipient. The
star network is the most widely used network topology
today. It is applied to a broad range of applications from
small networks in the home to very large networks in major
corporations.
Tree network—each device is connected to a central node,
either directly or through one or more other devices. The
central node is connected to two or more subordinate nodes
that in turn are connected to other subordinate nodes, and
so forth, forming a treelike structure. (See Figure 8-19.)
This network, also known as a hierarchical network, is
often used to share corporate-wide data.
Mesh network—this topology is the newest type and does not
use a specific physical layout (such as a star or a tree).
Rather, the mesh network requires that each node have more
than one connection to the other nodes. (See Figure 8-20.)
The resulting pattern forms the appearance of a mesh. If a
path between two nodes is somehow disrupted, data can be
automatically rerouted around the failure using another
reset page 504
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
path. Wireless technologies are frequently used to build
mesh networks.
Figure 8-17 Ring network
Figure 8-18 Star network
reset page 505
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 8-19 Tree network
Description
Figure 8-20 Mesh network
Description
page 203
Strategies
reset page 506
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Every network has a strategy, or way of coordinating the
sharing of information and resources. Two of the most common
network strategies are client/server and peer-to-peer.
Client/server networks use central servers to coordinate
and supply services to other nodes on the network. The server
provides access to resources such as web pages, databases,
application software, and hardware. (See Figure 8-21.) This
strategy is based on specialization. Server nodes coordinate
and supply specialized services, and client nodes request the
services. Commonly used server operating systems are Windows
Server, macOS X Server, Linux, and Solaris.
Figure 8-21 Client/server network
Gravvi/Shutterstock
Client/server networks are widely used on the Internet.
For example, each time you open a web browser, your computer
(the client) sends out a request for a specific web page.
This request is routed over the Internet to a server. This
server locates and sends the requested material back to your
computer.
One advantage of the client/server network strategy is the
ability to handle very large networks efficiently. Another
advantage is the availability of powerful network management
reset page 507
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
software to monitor and control network activities. The major
disadvantages are the cost of installation and maintenance.
In a peer-to-peer (P2P) network, nodes have equal
authority and can act as both clients and servers. The most
common way to share games, movies, and music over the
Internet is to use a P2P network. For example, special file-
sharing software such as BitTorrent can be used to obtain
files located on another personal computer and can provide
files to other personal computers.
P2P networks are rapidly growing in popularity as people
continue to share information with others around the world.
The primary advantage is that they are easy and inexpensive
(often free) to set up and use. One disadvantage of P2P
networks is the lack of security controls or other common
management functions. For this reason, few businesses use
this type of network to communicate sensitive information.
concept check
What is a network topology?
Compare bus, ring, star, tree, and mesh topologies.
What is a network strategy?
Compare client/server and peer-to-peer strategies.
Organizational Networks
Computer networks in organizations have evolved over time.
Most large organizations have a complex and wide range of
different network configurations, operating systems, and
strategies. These organizations face the challenge of making
these networks work together effectively and securely.
Internet Technologies
reset page 508
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Many organizations today employ Internet technologies to
support effective communication within and between
organizations using intranets and extranets.
An intranet is a private network within an organization
that resembles the Internet. Like the public Internet,
intranets use browsers, websites, and web pages. Typical
applications include electronic telephone directories, e-
mail addresses, employee benefit information, page 204
internal job openings, and much more. Employees
find surfing their organizational intranets to be as easy
and as intuitive as surfing the Internet.
An extranet is a private network that connects more than
one organization. Many organizations use Internet
technologies to allow suppliers and others limited access
to their networks. The purpose is to increase efficiency
and reduce costs. For example, an automobile manufacturer
has hundreds of suppliers for the parts that go into making
a car. By having access to the car production schedules,
suppliers can schedule and deliver parts as they are needed
at the assembly plants. In this way, operational efficiency
is maintained by both the manufacturer and the suppliers.
Network Security
Large organizations face the challenge of ensuring that only
authorized users have access to network resources, sometimes
from multiple geographic locations or across the Internet.
Securing large computer networks requires specialized
technology. Three technologies commonly used to ensure
network security are firewalls, intrusion detection systems,
and virtual private networks.
A firewall consists of hardware and software that control
access to a company’s intranet and other internal
networks. Most use software or a special computer called a
proxy server. All communications between the company’s
reset page 509
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
internal networks and the outside world pass through this
server. By evaluating the source and the content of each
communication, the proxy server decides whether it is safe
to let a particular message or file pass into or out of the
organization’s network. (See Figure 8-22.)
Intrusion detection systems (IDSs) work with page 205
firewalls to protect an organization’s network.
These systems use sophisticated statistical techniques to
analyze all incoming and outgoing network traffic. Using
advanced pattern matching and heuristics, an IDS can
recognize signs of a network attack and disable access
before an intruder can do damage.
Virtual private networks (VPNs) create a secure private
connection between a remote user and an organization’s
internal network. Special VPN protocols create the
equivalent of a dedicated line between a user’s home or
laptop computer and a company server. The connection is
heavily encrypted, and, from the perspective of the user,
it appears that the workstation is actually located on the
corporate network.
reset page 510
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 8-22 Intranets, extranets, firewalls, and proxy
servers
Description
Like organizations, end users have security challenges and
concerns. We need to be concerned about the privacy of our
personal information. In the next chapter, we will discuss
personal firewalls and other ways to protect personal privacy
and security.
privacy
reset page 511
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
In this age of social media and cell phones, it can be difficult to
maintain your privacy on the Internet—but have you considered how to
maintain the privacy of your Internet connection? When traveling it is
common to use unfamiliar Wi-Fi connections—at a hotel, airport, or
coffee shop—but what confidence do you have that your Internet
activities won’t be monitored? Proponents of monitoring point out that
public spaces offer no guarantee of privacy and a business has the
right to monitor Internet traffic to deny inappropriate web pages.
Privacy advocates counter that many of the most common Internet
activities include private data—such as sharing photos and receiving
e-mails—and that in offering public Wi-Fi to perform common Internet
tasks, it is reasonable for a person to have an expectation of privacy.
What do you think?
concept check
What are Internet technologies? Compare intranets and extranets.
What is a firewall? What is a proxy server?
What are intrusion detection systems?
What are virtual private networks?
Careers in IT
“Now
that you have learned about computer communications and
networks, let me tell you about my career as a network
administrator.”
Network administrators manage a company’s LAN and WAN
networks. They may be responsible for design,
implementation, and maintenance of networks. Duties usually
include maintenance of both hardware and software related
to a company’s intranet and Internet networks. Network
administrators are typically responsible for diagnosing and
repairing problems with these networks. Some network
reset page 512
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
administrators’ duties include planning and implementation
of network security as well.
Scharfsinn/Shutterstock
Employers typically look for candidates with a
bachelor’s or an associate’s degree in computer science,
computer technology, or information systems, as well as
practical networking experience. Experience with network
security and maintenance is preferred. Also, technical
certification may be helpful in obtaining this position.
Because network administrators are involved directly with
people in many departments, good communication skills are
essential.
Network administrators can expect to earn an annual
salary of $43,000 to $84,000. Opportunities for advancement
typically include upper-management positions. This position
is expected to be among the fastest-growing jobs in the
near future.
page 206
A LOOK TO THE FUTURE
reset page 513
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Telepresence Lets You Be There without Actually
Being There
Originally, a cell phone was just a device for making a phone call. But
with improved networks and the development of the smartphone, cell phones
have become capable of much more. Today, many people don’t communicate on
a cell phone as a phone, but as a camera, through videoconferences, videos
recorded to social media, or texting photos. It is easy to see why—photos
and videos help us communicate better. These visual ways to communicate
have become common because cell phones have become more powerful, cameras
have become smaller, and networks have become faster. How will our
communications improve as technology and networks continue to grow in
power and availability? The future of communication is a world with
seamless telepresence.
Telepresence is the use of technology to create the illusion that you
are actually somewhere else. Unlike a videoconference, where a small
screen conveys the images and sounds of another location, telepresence
attempts to replicate the foreign location entirely. These technologies
include improved video and audio with immersive screens and multiple
directional speakers. But it goes further than that: Telepresence will
allow you to touch things in this other location—to interact with the
world there through robotics and even feel this other location. In the
future, telepresence will likely include robots that will allow you to
walk the halls of your office or other remote locations from the comfort
of your home. Technology will continue to evolve to improve our lives as
we look to the future.
Khakimullin Aleksandr/Shutterstock
Today’s early implementations, such as Cisco TelePresence, use very-
high-definition video, acoustically tuned audio systems, and high-speed
networks to create a very convincing videoconferencing experience.
reset page 514
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
However, tele- presence could someday go beyond the simple voice and
videoconferencing available today, with robotics allowing the telecommuter
to change location and pick up objects. The ability to manipulate things
through robotic arms is only part of the illusion of being in another
place—you must also feel and touch the distant objects. Called haptic
technology, specialized gloves and surfaces can give the user touch
sensations that mimic holding or touching a distant object.
One of the areas where telepresence robotics are already being used is
in hospitals. Ava Robotics has developed the RP-VITA, a telepresence robot
that has multiple cameras, high-resolution screens, and complex robotics
to allow a doctor to care for and consult with patients and doctors from
around the world. Scientists at the National Institutes of Health are
investigating the use of augmented reality videoconferencing to assist in
the triage and care of patients entering a hospital. Future technologies
include specialized cameras that monitor temperature, heart rate, and
respiration and haptic robotics that can assist in diagnostic testing.
Telepresence robots will also play a roll in the home. Futurists
imagine a day when a telepresence robot is as common as the vacuum
cleaner. The home telepresence robot might be taken over by skilled
technicians, such as a plumber or electrician. The telepresence robot
would maneuver around the home, reviewing your pipes or wiring, and
perform simple tests, make recommendations, and offer quotes on work to be
done. A mechanic might use a telepresence robot to perform standard
vehicle tune-ups or repairs. What do you think—could telepresence
technology improve enough to convince you that you are somewhere else, or
would the gloves and headset be too distracting?
page 207
Communications and
VISUAL SUMMARY
Networks
COMMUNICATIONS
reset page 515
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock
Communications is the process of sharing data, programs,
and information between two or more computers.
Applications include texting, e-mail, videoconferencing,
and electronic commerce.
Connectivity
Connectivity is a concept related to using computer
networks to link people and resources. You can link or
connect to large computers and the Internet, providing
access to extensive information resources.
The Wireless Revolution
Mobile devices like cell phones and tablets have brought
dramatic changes in connectivity and communications.
These wireless devices are becoming widely used for
computer communication.
Communication Systems
Communication systems transmit data from one location to
another. There are four basic elements:
Sending and receiving devices originate or accept
messages.
reset page 516
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Connection devices act as an interface between sending
and receiving devices and the communication channel.
Data transmission specifications are rules and
procedures for sending and receiving data.
Communication channel is the actual connecting or
transmission medium for messages.
COMMUNICATION CHANNELS
Olgaviare/Getty Images
Communication channels carry data from one computer to
another.
Wireless Connections
Wireless connections do not use a solid substance to
connect devices. Most use radio waves.
WiMax (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave
Access)—extends the range of Wi-Fi networks using
microwave connections.
Bluetooth—transmits data over short distances; widely
used for a variety of wireless devices.
Wi-Fi (wireless fidelity)—uses high-frequency radio
signals; most home and business wireless networks use
Wi-Fi.
Microwave—line-of-sight communication; used to send
data between buildings; longer distances require
microwave stations.
reset page 517
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Cellular—uses cell towers to send and receive data
within relatively small geographic regions or cells.
Satellite—uses microwave relay stations; GPS (global
positioning system) tracks geographic locations.
Infrared—uses light waves over a short distance;
line-of-sight communication.
Physical Connections
Physical connections use a solid medium to connect
sending and receiving devices. Connections include
twisted-pair cable (telephone lines and Ethernet
cables), coaxial cable, and fiber-optic cable.
page 208
To efficiently and effectively use computers, you need
to understand the concepts of connectivity, the
wireless revolution, and communication systems.
Additionally, you need to know the essential parts of
communication technology, including channels,
connection devices, data transmission, networks,
network architectures, and network types.
CONNECTION DEVICES
(left): Pakpoom Phummee/Shutterstock; (middle): pryzmat/Shutterstock;
(right): Alex Melnick/Shutterstock
reset page 518
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Many communication systems use standard telephone lines
and analog signals. Computers use digital signals.
Modems
Modems modulate and demodulate. Transfer rate is
measured in megabits per second. Three types are
wireless (wireless wide area network, WWAN), DSL, and
cable.
Connection Services
T1, T3 (DS3), and OC (optical carrier) lines provide
support for very-high-speed, all-digital transmission for
large corporations. Cellular service providers support
voice and data transmission using cellular networks.
These mobile telecommunications networks have gone
through different generations—1G, using analog radio
signals; 2G, using digital radio signals; 3G, beginning
of cell phones; 4G, using LTE (Long Term Evolution); and
5G, the newest and fastest network.
Other more affordable technologies include dial-up,
DSL (digital subscriber line), ADSL (widely used),
cable, fiber-optic service (FiOS), and satellite.
DATA TRANSMISSION
Bandwidth measures a communication channel’s width or
capacity. Four bandwidths are voiceband, medium band,
broadband, and baseband. Protocols are rules for
exchanging data. Internet protocols include https and
TCP/IP. IP addresses (Internet protocol addresses) are
unique numeric Internet addresses. DNS (domain name
server) converts text-based addresses to and from
numeric IP addresses. Packets are small parts of
messages.
reset page 519
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
NETWORKS
Computer networks connect two or more computers. Some
specialized network terms include
Node—any device connected to a network.
Client—node requesting resources.
Server—node providing resources.
Directory server—specialized node that manages
resources.
Host—any computer system that provides access to its
resources over a network.
Router—a node that forwards data packets from one
network to another network.
Switch—node that coordinates direct flow of data
between other nodes. Hub is an older device that
directed flow to all nodes.
NIC (network interface card)—LAN adapter card for
connecting to a network.
NOS (network operating system)—controls and
coordinates network operations.
Network administrator—network specialist responsible
for network operations.
NETWORK TYPES
Networks can be citywide or even international, using
both wired and wireless connections.
Local area networks (LANs) connect nearby devices.
Network gateways connect networks to one another.
Ethernet is a LAN standard. These LANs are called
Ethernet LANs.
Home networks are LANs used in homes.
reset page 520
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Wireless LANs (WLANs) use a wireless access point
(base station) as a hub. Hotspots provide Internet
access in public places.
Personal area networks (PANs) are wireless networks
for Bluetooth headphones, cell phones, and other
wireless devices.
Metropolitan area networks (MANs) link office
buildings within a city, spanning up to 100 miles.
Wide area networks (WANs) are the largest type. They
span states and countries or form worldwide networks.
The Internet is the largest wide area network in the
world.
page 209
NETWORK ARCHITECTURE
Network architecture describes how networks are arranged
and resources are shared.
reset page 521
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Topologies
A network’s topology describes the physical arrangement
of a network.
Bus network—each device is connected to a common
cable called a bus or backbone.
Ring network—each device is connected to two other
devices, forming a ring.
Star network—each device is connected directly to a
central network switch; most common type today.
Tree (hierarchical) network—a central node is
connected to subordinate nodes forming a treelike
structure.
Mesh network—newest; each node has two or more
connecting nodes.
Strategies
Every network has a strategy, or way of sharing
information and resources. Common network strategies
include client/server and peer-to-peer.
Client/server (hierarchical) network—central
computers coordinate and supply services to other
nodes; based on specialization of nodes; widely used on
the Internet; able to handle very large networks
efficiently; powerful network management software
available.
Peer-to-peer network—nodes have equal authority and
act as both clients and servers; widely used to share
games, movies, and music over the Internet; easy to set
up and use; lacks security controls.
ORGANIZATIONAL NETWORKS
reset page 522
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Internet Technologies
Internet technologies support effective communication
using intranets and extranets.
Intranet—private network within an organization; uses
browsers, websites, and web pages. Typical applications
include electronic telephone directories, e-mail
addresses, employee benefit information, internal job
openings, and much more.
Extranet—like intranet except connects more than one
organization; typically allows suppliers and others
limited access to their networks.
Network Security
Three technologies commonly used to ensure network
security are firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and
virtual private networks.
Firewall—controls access; all communications pass
through a proxy server.
reset page 523
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Intrusion detection systems (IDSs)—work with
firewalls; use sophisticated statistical techniques to
recognize and disable network attacks.
Virtual private network (VPN)—creates secure private
connection between remote user and organization’s
internal network.
CAREERS in IT
Network administrators manage a company’s LAN and WAN
networks. Bachelor’s or associate’s degree in computer
science, computer technology, or information systems and
practical networking experience required. Expected salary
range is $43,000 to $84,000.
page 210
KEY TERMS
1G (first-generation mobile telecommunications) (193)
2G (second-generation mobile telecommunications) (193)
3G (third-generation mobile telecommunications) (193)
4G (fourth-generation mobile telecommunications) (193)
5G (fifth-generation mobile telecommunications) (193)
analog signal (192)
asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL) (193)
backbone (202)
bandwidth (196)
reset page 524
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
base station (200)
baseband (196)
Bluetooth (190)
broadband (196)
bus (202)
bus network (202)
cable modem (192)
cable service (193)
cell (190)
cell tower (190)
cellular (190)
cellular service provider (193)
client (197)
client/server network (203)
coaxial cable (191)
communication channel (190)
communication system (189)
computer network (197)
connectivity (188)
demodulation (192)
dial-up service (193)
digital signal (192)
digital subscriber line (DSL) (192)
digital subscriber line (DSL) service (193)
directory server (198)
domain name server (DNS) (197)
downlink (191)
DS3 (193)
Ethernet (199)
reset page 525
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Ethernet cable (191)
extranet (204)
fiber-optic cable (191)
fiber-optic service (FiOS) (193)
firewall (204)
global positioning system (GPS) (191)
hierarchical network (202)
home network (199)
host (198)
hotspot (200)
https (hypertext transfer protocol secure) (196)
hub (198)
infrared (191)
intranet (203)
intrusion detection system (IDS) (205)
IP address (Internet protocol address) (196)
local area network (LAN) (199)
low bandwidth (196)
LTE (Long Term Evolution) (193)
medium band (196)
megabits per second (Mbps) (192)
mesh network (202)
metropolitan area network (MAN) (200)
microwave (190)
modem (192)
modulation (192)
network administrator (199, 205)
network architecture (201)
network gateway (199)
reset page 526
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
network interface card (NIC) (198)
network operating system (NOS) (199)
node (197)
optical carrier (OC) (193)
packet (197)
peer-to-peer (P2P) network (203)
personal area network (PAN) (200)
protocol (196)
proxy server (204)
ring network (202)
router (198)
satellite (191)
satellite connection service (193)
server (198)
star network (202)
strategy (203)
switch (198)
T1 (193)
T3 (193)
telephone line (191)
topology (202)
transfer rate (192)
transmission control protocol/Internet protocol (TCP/IP)
(196)
tree network (202)
twisted-pair cable (191)
uplink (191)
virtual private network (VPN) (205)
voiceband (196)
reset page 527
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
wide area network (WAN) (201)
Wi-Fi (wireless fidelity) (190)
WiMax (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access)
(191)
wireless access point (200)
wireless LAN (WLAN) (200)
wireless modem (192)
wireless wide area network (WWAN) modem (192)
page 211
MULTIPLE CHOICE
Circle the correct answer.
1. Type of network topology in which each device is
connected to a common cable called a backbone.
a. star
b. bus
c. peer-to-peer
d. ring
2. A widely used Internet protocol.
a. TCP/IP
b. WAN
c. LAN
d. WiMax
3. Uses high-frequency radio waves.
reset page 528
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
a. NIC
b. mesh
c. VPN
d. Wi-Fi
4. Signals that are continuous electronic waves.
a. analog
b. digital
c. backbone
d. mesh
5. Rules for exchanging data between computers.
a. modem
b. https
c. extranet
d. protocols
6. Any device that is connected to a network.
a. ADSL
b. node
c. optical carrier
d. hotspot
7. A computer specialist responsible for efficient network
operations and implementation of new networks.
a. network administrator
b. wireless access point
c. cellular service provider
d. hub
8. This network, also known as a hierarchical network, is
often used to share corporatewide data.
a. bus
b. tree
reset page 529
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
c. mesh
d. ring
9. In this network, nodes have equal authority and can act
as both clients and servers.
a. bus
b. tree
c. peer-to-peer
d. mesh
10. This works with firewalls to protect an organization’s
network.
a. uplink
b. FiOS
c. intrusion detection system
d. DSL
page 212
MATCHING
Match each numbered item with the most closely related
lettered item. Write your answers in the spaces provided.
a. con nectivity 1. The bandwidth
b. coaxial typically used for DSL,
cable, and satellite
c. Bluetooth
connections to the
d. transfer
Internet.
rate
reset page 530
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
e. bro adband 2. Sometimes referred to
f. IP address as a LAN adapter, these
expansion cards connect
g. NIC
a computer to a
h. network
network.
gateway
3. The speed with which a
i. hotspots
modem transmits data is
j. topologies c alled its .
4. A device that allows
one LAN to be linked to
other LANs or to larger
networks.
5. The concept related to
using computer networks
to link people and
resources.
6. A high-frequency
transmission cable that
delivers television
signals as well as
connects computers in a
network.
7. Every computer on the
Internet has a unique
numeric address called
a(n) .
8. Typically using Wi-Fi
technology, these
wireless access points
are available from
reset page 531
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
public places such as
coffee shops,
libraries, bookstores,
colleges, and
universities.
9. A short-range radio
communication standard
that transmits data
over short distances of
up to approximately 33
feet.
10. Bus, ring, star, tree,
and mesh are five types
o f network .
OPEN-ENDED
On a separate sheet of paper, respond to each question or
statement.
1. Define communications, including connectivity, the
wireless revolution, and communication systems.
2. Discuss communication channels, including wireless
connections and physical connections.
3. Discuss connection devices, including modems (DSL,
cable, and wireless modems) and connection services
(cellular, DSL, ADSL, cable, and satellite).
4. Discuss data transmission, including bandwidths (voice
band, medium band, broadband, and baseband) as well as
reset page 532
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
protocols (IP addresses, domain name servers, and
packetization).
5. Discuss networks by identifying and defining specialized
terms that describe computer networks.
6. Discuss network types, including local area, home,
wireless, personal, metropolitan, and wide area
networks.
7. Define network architecture, including topologies (bus,
ring, star, tree, and mesh) and strategies
(client/server and peer-to-peer).
8. Discuss organization networks, including Internet
technologies (intranets and extranets) and network
security (firewalls, proxy servers, intrusion detection
systems, and virtual private networks).
page 213
DISCUSSION
Respond to each of the following questions.
Making IT Work for You: THE MOBILE
1
OFFICE
Review the Making IT Work for You: The Mobile Office on pages 194 and
195 and then respond to the following: (a) What types of professions
would get the most out of a mobile office? Why? What type of office work
is best done at work? What office work can be handled while driving? Or
on an airplane? (b) Do you have a mobile Internet device, such as a cell
phone or tablet? (If you do not own any, research a device on the
Internet that you feel would be most beneficial to you.) Can your mobile
Internet device be used as a hotspot? Does your service provider allow
reset page 533
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
you to use that feature? (c) Have you ever connected to a public Wi-Fi?
Did you share any private information, including videos, e-mails, credit
card numbers, or passwords, over a public Wi-Fi? How would you protect
your data in the future when on a public Wi-Fi?
Privacy: UNAUTHORIZED NETWORK
2
INTRUSION
Review the Privacy box on page 205 and then respond to the following:
(a) Does a company offering public Wi-Fi have the right to monitor the
traffic on its own network? Does it have the right to read the e-mails
that are downloaded on that network? Does it have the right to record
the passwords that are sent over that network? Where would you draw the
line, and why? (b) Does the government have the right to monitor the
Internet activities of its citizens? What data should the government
collect about its citizens’ Internet use, and how long should the
government hold on to that data? Would your opinion change if you knew
terrorists were using the Internet to plan crimes? Would your opinion
change if you knew politicians were using collected data to influence
election outcomes?
Ethics: ELECTRONIC MONITORING
3
Review the Ethics box on page 190 and respond to the following: (a) Is
it unethical for an organization or corporation to use programs to
monitor communications on its network? Why or why not? (b) Is it
unethical for a government agency (such as the FBI) to monitor
communications on the Internet or gather your records from the websites
you visit? Why or why not? (c) Do you feel that new laws are needed to
handle these issues? How would you balance the needs of companies and
the government with the needs of individuals? Explain your answers.
Community: INTERNET FOR THE DEVELOPING
4
WORLD
Review the Community box on page 191 and then respond to the following:
(a) What daily challenges face the citizens of developing countries? How
could an Internet connection assist in overcoming these challenges? (b)
Many individuals in developing countries cannot afford the devices that
connect to the Internet. How can a community work together to make such
devices available? (c) Within your own community, are there any
community programs that provide Internet-accessible devices to those who
reset page 534
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------