
page 214
Privacy, Security,
chapter
9
and Ethics
reset page 536
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Stepan Kapl/Shutterstock
page 215
Why should I read this chapter?
Our every click, every post, and every like online is recorded, analyzed,
and turned to a profit. The details of your social media usage can be
packaged and sold to bankers, employers, and ad agencies. While your
social media account may be free, the data they collect on you is
valuable. It will affect which advertisements you see, what interest
rates you pay on credit, and what price you see when you shop for goods
online.
HQuality/Shutterstock
What rights do you have to your information? What laws protect you?
This chapter covers the things you need to know to be prepared for this
ever-changing world, including the following:
Cybercrime—protect yourself from viruses, Internet scams, and identity
theft.
Privacy rights—learn what companies can legally record about your
Internet usage and how they use that information.
Safe computing—avoid embarrassment and worse by knowing the way
Facebook and social networking sites share your information.
Protect yourself by being aware of what information you are sharing,
how that information might be used, and what rights you have to be
private and secure on the Internet.
reset page 537
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Learning Objectives
After you have read this chapter, you should be able to:
1. Describe the impact of large databases, private
networks, the Internet, and the web on privacy.
2. Discuss online identity and the major laws on privacy.
3. Discuss cybercrimes, including identity theft, Internet
scams, data manipulation, ransomware, and denial of
service.
4. Describe social engineering and malicious software,
including crackers, malware, viruses, worms, and Trojan
horses.
5. Discuss malicious hardware, including zombies, botnets,
rogue Wi-Fi networks, and infected USB flash drives.
6. Detail ways to protect computer security, including
restricting access, encrypting data, anticipating
disasters, and preventing data loss.
7. Discuss computer ethics, including copyright law,
software piracy, digital rights management, the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act, as well as cyberbullying,
plagiarism, and ways to identify plagiarism.
page 216
Introduction
reset page 538
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
“Hi,
I’m Ann, and I’m an IT security analyst. I’d like to
talk with you about privacy, security, and ethics, three critical
topics for anyone who uses computers today. I would also like to
talk about how you can protect your privacy, ensure your security,
and act ethically.”
Ariel Skelley/Getty Images
There are more than 1 billion personal computers in use today. What are
the consequences of the widespread presence of this technology? Does
technology make it easy for others to invade our personal privacy? When we
apply for a loan or for a driver’s license, or when we check out at the
supermarket, is that information about us being distributed and used
without our permission? When we use the web, is information about us being
collected and shared with others? How can criminals use this information
for ransom, blackmail, or vandalism?
This technology prompts lots of questions—very important questions.
Perhaps these are some of the most important questions for the 21st
century. To efficiently and effectively use computers, you need to be
aware of the potential impact of technology on people and how to protect
yourself on the web. You need to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about
personal privacy and organizational security.
People
As we have discussed, information systems consist of people,
procedures, software, hardware, data, and the Internet. This
reset page 539
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
chapter focuses on people. Although most everyone agrees that
technology has had a very positive impact on people, it is
important to recognize the negative, or potentially negative,
impacts as well.
Effective implementation of computer technology involves
maximizing its positive effects while minimizing its negative
effects. The most significant concerns are
Privacy: What are the threats to personal privacy, and how
can we protect ourselves?
Security: How can access to sensitive information be
controlled, and how can we secure hardware and software?
Ethics: How do the actions of individual users and
companies affect society?
Let us begin by examining privacy.
Privacy
To appreciate the impact that the digital revolution is
having on our world, you need look no further than the cell
phone in your pocket. A cell phone is a marvel that provides
a camera, microphone, and minuscule sensors ready to share
your life with the world. With these new tools come new
challenges to old ways of thinking. What does it mean to
preserve privacy in a social media world where every
experience is recorded and preserved? Who owns the memories
we create with these devices? Who has the right to share
them? To delete them? To profit from them?
page 217
Privacy concerns the collection and use of data about
individuals. There are three primary privacy issues:
reset page 540
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Accuracy relates to the responsibility of those who collect
data to ensure that the data is correct.
Property relates to who owns data.
Access relates to the responsibility of those who have data
to control who is able to use that data.
Big Data
Today, almost all human events are recorded digitally. For
example, making a phone call, posting a video to social
media, or wearing a smartwatch creates a digital record. A
digital record of a phone call can include who you called,
when you called, where you were when you made the call, and
even the contents of the conversation itself. This results in
an unprecedented amount of digital information being stored.
This stored information is often referred to as big data.
Large organizations are constantly compiling information
about us. The federal government alone has over 2,000
databases. For example, credit card companies maintain user
databases that track cardholder purchases, payments, and
credit records. Supermarket scanners in grocery checkout
counters record what we buy, when we buy it, how much we buy,
and the price. Financial institutions, including banks and
credit unions, record how much money we have, what we use it
for, and how much we owe. Search engines record the search
histories of their users, including search topics and sites
visited. Social networking sites collect every entry.
This collection of data can be searched to find all the
action of one person—creating a digital footprint that
reveals a highly detailed account of your life. A vast
industry of data gatherers known as information resellers or
information brokers now exists that collects, analyzes, and
sells such personal data. (See Figure 9-1.)
reset page 541
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 9-1 Information reseller’s website
Acxiom
Your digital footprint can reveal more than you might wish
to make public and have an impact beyond what you might
imagine. This raises many important issues, including
Collecting public, but personally identifying,
information: What if people anywhere in the world could
view detailed images of you, your home, or your vehicle?
Using detailed images captured with a specially equipped
van, Google’s Street View project allows just that. Street
View makes it possible to take a virtual tour of many
cities and neighborhoods from any computer with a page 218
connection to the Internet. (See Figure 9-2.)
Although the images available on Street View are all taken
in public locations, some have objected to the project as
being an intrusion on their privacy.
As digital cameras and webcams become cheaper and
software becomes more sophisticated, it is likely that many
more issues involving personal privacy in public spaces
will need to be addressed. Such a combination of computing
reset page 542
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
technologies could, for example, make real-time tracking of
individuals in public places possible.
Spreading information without personal consent: How would
you feel if an employer were using your Facebook, Twitter,
or other social networking profiles to make decisions about
hiring, placement, promotion, and firing? It is a common
practice today for many organizations.
As we have discussed in Chapter 2, social networking is
designed for open sharing of information among individuals
who share a common interest. Unfortunately, this openness
can put individuals using social networking sites at risk.
In fact, some have lost their jobs after posting
unflattering remarks about their supervisor or after
discussing their dislike of their current job. Deeper
analysis of your social networking profile may reveal even
more about yourself than you intend.
The potential to inadvertently share personal
information extends past what you might post to your social
networking site. As an example, without your knowledge or
permission, a social networking friend might tag or
identify you in a photo on his or her site. Once tagged,
that photo can become part of your digital footprint and
available to others without your consent.
Spreading inaccurate information: How would you like to be
turned down for a home loan because of an error in your
credit history? This is much more common than you might
expect. What if you could not find a job or were fired from
a job because of an error giving you a serious criminal
history? This can and has happened due to simple clerical
errors. In one case, an arresting officer while completing
an arrest warrant incorrectly recorded the Social Security
number of a criminal. From that time forward, this arrest
and the subsequent conviction became part of another
person’s digital footprint. This is an example of mistaken
reset page 543
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
identity in which the digital footprint of one person is
switched with another.
page 219
It’s important to know that you have some recourse. The
law allows you to gain access to those records about you
that are held by credit bureaus. Under the Freedom of
Information Act, you are also entitled to look at your
records held by government agencies. (Portions may be
deleted for national security reasons.)
Figure 9-2 Google Street View
Google, INC.
community
reset page 544
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Sharing personal information on social media is a necessary part of
creating and participating in an online community. However, many
individuals do not fully understand the complex sharing and privacy
policies of these networks. This often causes unintentional sharing
with people outside their intended social circle. The social networks
themselves have come under fire from privacy groups, who say that these
companies use complex settings and policies to get users to share more
information than intended. This information is in turn shared with
advertisers. Do you think social networking companies are doing enough
to ensure the privacy and security of the communities they serve?
Private Networks
Suppose you use your company’s electronic mail system to
send a co-worker an unflattering message about your
supervisor or to send a highly personal message to a friend.
Later you find the boss has been reading these e-mails. In
fact, many businesses search employees’ electronic mail and
computer files using employee-monitoring software. These
programs record virtually everything you do on your computer.
Many people incorrectly assume that their employers won’t or
can’t monitor employee activity on work computers and
networks. You should never do anything on a work computer or
a work network connection that you wouldn’t want shared with
your employer. If you are employed and would like to know
your company’s current policy on monitoring electronic
communication, contact your human relations department.
concept check
Describe how big data can affect our privacy.
What is big data? Information resellers? Digital footprint?
List three important issues related to digital footprints. What is
mistaken identity? What is the Freedom of Information Act?
What are private networks? What is employee-monitoring software? Is it
legal?
reset page 545
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
The Internet and the Web
When you send a message or browse the web, do you have any
concerns about privacy? Most people do not. They think that
as long as they are using their own computer and are
selective about disclosing their names or other personal
information, then little can be done to invade their personal
privacy. Experts call this the illusion of anonymity that
the Internet brings.
As we discussed in Chapter 8, every computer on the
Internet is identified by a unique number known as an IP
address. IP addresses can be used to trace Internet
activities to their origin, allowing computer security
experts and law enforcement officers to investigate computer
crimes such as unauthorized access to networks or sharing
copyright files without permission.
Some websites are designed to be hidden from standard
search engines. These websites make up the deep web and allow
communication in a secure and anonymous manner. One part of
the deep web is hidden websites that make up the dark web.
These websites use special software that hides a user’s IP
address and makes it nearly impossible to identify who is
using the site. The ability to communicate anonymously
attracts criminals who want to sell drugs, share child
pornography, or profit from the poaching of endangered
animals. This same anonymity allows people in countries where
political dissent is dangerous and free speech is censored to
communicate, plan, and organize toward a more free and open
society without fear of jail or execution.
When you browse the web, your browser stores critical
information, typically without you being aware of it. This
information, which contains records about your Internet
activities, includes history and temporary Internet files.
History files include the locations, or addresses, of sites
that you have recently visited. This history file can be
displayed by your browser in various locations, including
reset page 546
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
the address bar (as you type) and the History page. To view
your browsing history on your Android or iOS cell phone,
see Figure 9-3.
Temporary Internet files, also known as the page 220
browser cache, contain web page content and
instructions for displaying this content. Whenever you
visit a website, these files are saved by your browser. If
you leave a site and then return later, these files are
used to quickly redisplay web content.
Figure 9-3 Viewing history files using Android Chrome and
iOS Safari
(a) Google, INC. (b) Apple Inc.
reset page 547
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Another way your web activity can be monitored is with
cookies. Cookies are small data files that are deposited on
your hard disk from websites you have visited. Based on your
browser’s settings, these cookies can be accepted or
blocked. Although you will generally not be aware when a
website generates a cookie, the personalized experiences you
enjoy on the web are often a result of those cookies.
Although cookies are harmless in and of themselves, what
makes them a potential privacy risk is that they can store
information about you, your preferences, and your browsing
habits. The information stored generally depends on whether
the cookie is a first-party or a third-party cookie.
A first-party cookie is one that is generated (and then
read) only by the website you are currently visiting. Many
websites use first-party cookies to store information about
the current session, your general preferences, and your
activity on the site. The intention of these cookies is to
provide a personalized experience on a particular site. For
example, when you are shopping online, you might fill your
cart with items and then leave the site without making
making a purchase. Cookies allow you to return to that site
and have the site remember what was in your cart.
A third-party cookie is usually generated by an advertising
company that is affiliated with the website you are
currently visiting. These cookies are used by the
advertising company to keep track of your web activity as
you move from one site to the next. For this reason, they
are often referred to as tracking cookies. Critics of this
practice claim that your privacy is being violated because
your activity is being recorded across multiple page 221
websites. Defenders of this practice argue that
these cookies are beneficial because they help websites
deliver ads that interest you. For example, suppose you
visit four different websites that employ the same
advertising agency. The first three sites are about cars,
reset page 548
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
but the fourth is a search engine. When you visit the
fourth site, you will likely see a car advertisement
because your cookie showed that you had been visiting car-
related websites.
Some users are not comfortable with the idea of web
browsers storing so much information in the form of temporary
Internet files, cookies, and history. For this reason,
browsers now offer users an easy way to delete their browsing
history. To see how to delete browsing histories on your
Android or iOS cell phone, see Figure 9-4. In addition, most
browsers also offer a privacy mode, which ensures that your
browsing activity is not recorded on your hard disk. For
example, Google Chrome provides Incognito Mode accessible
from the Chrome menu, and Safari provides Private Browsing
accessible from the Safari option on the main menu.
reset page 549
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 9-4 Deleting history files using Android Chrome and
iOS Safari
(a) Google, INC. (b) Apple Inc.
privacy
Google’s Chrome web browser erases any record of your web activities
from your computer while using Incognito Mode. Many believe this means
that Google will not record your activities on the web. However, it
does not erase your activities recorded on the computers that run the
websites that you visit. For example, Google’s websites will record
information about your activities even when you are in Incognito Mode.
What do you think? Does Google Chrome’s promise of private browsing
include the information that Google collects on its websites?
Although these web browser files can concern many
individuals, several other threats could potentially violate
your privacy. Web bugs, which are invisible images or HTML
code hidden within a web page or e-mail message, can be used
to transmit information without your knowledge. When a user
opens an e-mail containing a web bug, information is sent
back to the source of the bug. The receiving server will now
know that this e-mail address is active. One of the most
common web bugs is used by companies that sell active mailing
lists to spammers. Because of this deception, many e-mail
programs now block images and HTML code from unknown senders.
It is up to the user to decide whether or not to allow such
content to be displayed for current and future messages.
The most dangerous type of privacy threat comes in the
form of spyware. The term spyware is used to describe a wide
range of programs that are designed to secretly record and
report an individual’s activities on the Internet. Some of
these programs can even make changes to your browser in order
to deceive you and manipulate what you see online. Computer
monitoring software is perhaps the most invasive and
dangerous type of spyware. One type of computer page 222
reset page 550
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
monitoring software, known as a keylogger, records every
activity and keystroke made on your computer system,
including credit card numbers, passwords, and e-mail
messages. Computer monitoring software can be deposited onto
your hard drive without your knowledge by a malicious website
or by someone installing the program directly onto your
computer. Although such software is deadly in the hands of
criminals, it can be legally used by companies monitoring
employees or law enforcement officials who are collecting
evidence.
Unfortunately, many spyware programs go undetected,
largely because users have no idea they are infected. Spyware
will run in the background, invisible to the average user.
Other times, it disguises itself as useful software, such as
a security program. Spyware is alarmingly common on laptops
and desktops, but recent spyware is designed to work on other
types of computers. For example, Pegasus is spyware designed
to work on iOs and Android cell phones. The financial impact
to individuals, companies, and financial institutions is
estimated at billions of dollars.
ethics
Data encryption protects your bank accounts and private e-mails, but it
also allows criminals to hide evidence from police. Some government
agencies want to limit the power of data encryption to make it easier
to find and jail criminals. Privacy advocates argue that limiting
encryption gives criminals and dictators tools that will be used to
steal data and suppress freedoms. Security advocates respond that to
protect citizens from criminals, the police must be able to search
encrypted devices when warranted. Should governments be given a
skeleton key to bypass encryption? Should unbreakable encryption be
illegal?
One of the best defenses against spyware is to exercise
caution when visiting new websites and downloading software
reset page 551
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
from an unknown source. Another defense involves using a
category of software known as antispyware or spy removal
programs, which are designed to detect and remove various
types of privacy threats. (See Figure 9-5.) For a list of
some of these programs, see Figure 9-6.
Figure 9-5 Antispyware
Piotr Swat/Shutterstock
Program Website
Ad-Aware www.adaware.com
Norton Security www.norton.com
Windows Defender www.microsoft.com
AVG Antitrack avg.com
Figure 9-6 Antispyware programs
Online Identity
reset page 552
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Another aspect of Internet privacy comes from online
identity, the information that people voluntarily post about
themselves online. With the popularity of social networking,
blogging, and photo- and video-sharing sites, many people
post intimate details of their lives without considering the
consequences. Although it is easy to think of online identity
as something shared between friends, the archiving and search
features of the web make it available indefinitely to anyone
who cares to look.
There are any number of cases of people who have lost
their jobs on the basis of posts on social networking sites.
These job losses range from a teacher (using off-color
language and photos showing drinking) to a chief financial
officer of a major corporation (discussing corporate dealings
and financial data). The cases include college graduates
being refused a job because of Facebook posts. How would you
feel if information you posted about yourself on the web kept
you from getting a job?
page 223
Major Laws on Privacy
Some federal laws governing privacy matters have been
created. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act protects
personal financial information, the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) protects medical
records, and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA) restricts disclosure of educational records.
Most of the information collected by private organizations
is not covered by existing laws. However, as more and more
individuals become concerned about controlling who has the
right to personal information and how that information is
used, companies and lawmakers will respond.
reset page 553
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
concept check
What is the illusion of anonymity? Define and compare history files
and temporary Internet files. What is Privacy mode?
What is a cookie? A first-party cookie? A third-party cookie?
What is a web bug? Spyware? Keylogger? Antispyware? Online identity?
Describe three federal laws to protect privacy.
Security
Personal security protects us from crime and danger in the
physical world. For example, bank security protects our
savings, home security protects our families, and airport
security protect our safety. The digital revolution brings
with it new types of crimes and dangers. To protect ourselves
from these new threats, computer security needs to protect
our information, hardware, and software from unauthorized
use, as well as preventing or limiting the damage from
intrusions, sabotage, and natural disasters.
Cybercrime
Cybercrime or computer crime is any criminal offense that
involves a computer and a network. Cybercrimes are often in
the news, especially cyberterrorism, which is a politically
motivated cybercrime. It was recently estimated that
cybercrime affects over 400 million people and costs over
$400 billion each year. Cybercrimes can take various forms,
including identity theft, Internet scams, data manipulation,
ransomware, and denial of service attacks.
Identity theft is the illegal assumption of someone’s
identity for the purposes of economic gain. Stolen
identities are used to steal credit cards and mail and to
reset page 554
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
commit other crimes. It is estimated that identity thieves
stole $16 billion and victimized 15.4 million individuals.
Internet scams are scams using the Internet. Internet scams
have created financial and legal problems for many
thousands of people. Almost all the scams are initiated by
a mass mailing to unsuspecting individuals. Recently,
Interpol busted a criminal network of 40 people across
Nigeria, Malaysia, and South Africa accused of page 224
using Internet scams to steal more than $60
million. See Figure 9-7 for a list of common types of
Internet scams.
Type Description
Phishing Communications in which a criminal pretends to
be from an official organization and tricks you
into giving them sensitive data, such as
passwords, bank account numbers, etc. Often
these communications include a link to a
website that looks like an official log-in
screen but in fact is a fake website designed
to trick people into giving up their username
and password.
Advanced- A classic e-mail scam. The recipient receives
fee scam an e-mail from a wealthy foreigner in distress
who needs your bank account information to
safely store his or her wealth, and for your
troubles you will receive a large amount of
money. Of course, once the scammer has your
bank account information, your accounts will be
drained and he or she will disappear.
Greeting An e-mail or social media communication informs
card scam you that a friend has sent you a greeting card
and you need to download software to view it.
In fact, the software is malware that can steal
your data and infect your computer.
Bank Criminals acting as bank or credit card
loan/credit officials offer you unusually good deals on
card scam bank loans or credit cards—but these are just
attempts to get you to pay huge “processing
fees” and to get your personal information.
reset page 555
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Lottery An e-mail informs you that you have won the
scam lottery and to claim your prize, you need to
pay processing fees. Criminals will take the
processing fees, but you will not receive any
lottery winnings.
Figure 9-7 Common Internet scams
tips
Identity theft is a growing problem, and can be financially
devastating if you are a victim. Thieves are after anything
that can help them steal your identity, from your Social
Security number and date of birth to account information and
passwords. Here are some steps to help protect your identity:
1
Be careful what you post on the Internet. Never post personal
information on forums or social networking areas that are public
or in response to an e-mail from someone you do not know or trust.
2
Only do business on the Internet with companies you know to be
legitimate.
3
When selling a computer, be sure to completely remove all personal
information from the hard drive. To ensure that your personal
information is erased, consider using a free erasure software
tool, such as Dban (dban.org).
4
Monitor your credit. Each year, you are entitled to a free personal
credit report from each of the three major credit reporting
agencies. Monitor your credit by requesting a report every four
months from a different reporting agency. The official site for
this service is www.annualcreditreport.com.
Data manipulation is the unauthorized access of a computer
network and copying files to or from the server. This can
be as simple as making a post on Facebook when logged in as
someone else or as complex as feeding a company false
reports to change its business practices. Unlike other
cybercrimes, data manipulation can occur for months, even
reset page 556
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
years, without the victims being aware of the security
breach, making it hard to detect.
Ransomware is malicious software that encrypts your
computer’s data and ransoms the password to the user.
Ransomware criminals have targeted food processing plants,
hospitals, and police stations, endangering the health and
safety of millions. Most recently, a ransomware attack on
the Colonial Pipeline caused fuel shortages that grounded
airplanes and closed gas stations across the southeastern
United States in the summer of 2021.
Denial of service (DoS) attacks attempt to slow down or
stop a computer system or network by flooding a computer or
network with requests for information and data. These
requests can come from a single computer issuing repeated
requests. Widely used today is a variation known as
distributed denial of service (DDoS), which coordinates
several computers making repeated requests for service. The
targets of these attacks are usually Internet service
providers (ISPs) and specific websites. Once under attack,
the servers at the ISP or the website become overwhelmed
with these requests for service and are unable to respond
to legitimate users. As a result, the ISP or website is
effectively shut down.
With cybercrime on the rise and the high-profile victims
of cybercrime in the news, it is important to understand
the tools the cybercriminal uses to harm his victims.
Knowledge of these tools will help you make smarter choices
and protect yourself from becoming a victim. The tools of
the cybercriminal include social engineering, malicious
software, and malicious hardware. For a summary of
cybercrimes, see Figure 9-8.
Type Description
Identity Illegal assumption of
theft someone’s identity for
reset page 557
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
economic gain
Internet Scams over the Internet
scam usually initiated by
mass e-mail
Data Unauthorized access to
manipulation a computer network and
copying of files
Ransomware Encrypts data on a
user’s computer and
then ransoms password
to access encrypted
data
Denial of Slows down or stops a
service computer system or
(DoS) network by flooding it
with repeated requests
for information and/or
data
Figure 9-8 Common cybercrimes
concept check
What is cybercrime?
What are identity theft and Internet scams?
What are data manipulation, ransomware, and denial of service attacks?
page 225
Social Engineering
Often the least secure parts of a network or computer are the
humans who work with it. Social engineering is the practice
of manipulating people to divulge private data. For example,
a criminal may call you at work, pretending to be an IT
worker who needs your password and user name, or they may
reset page 558
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
“friend” you on social media to get access to private
information. Social engineering has played a key role in
identity theft, Internet scams, and data manipulation. One of
the most common social engineering techniques is phishing
(pronounced “fishing”). Phishing attempts to trick Internet
users into thinking a fake but official-looking website or e-
mail is legitimate. Phishing has grown in sophistication,
replicating entire websites, like PayPal, to try to lure
users into divulging their financial information.
privacy
Did you know that the World Wide Web contains websites purposely hidden
from you? Some websites are designed to be hidden from standard search
engines and allow people to communicate in a secure and anonymous
manner. These hidden websites make up the dark web and require special
software that makes it nearly impossible to identify who is using it.
The ability to communicate anonymously attracts criminals who want to
sell drugs, share child pornography, or profit from the poaching of
endangered animals. This same anonymity allows people in countries
where political dissent is dangerous and free speech is censored to
communicate, plan, and organize toward a more free and open society
without fear of jail or execution. Prior to reading this Privacy
section, were you aware of the dark web? Do you think it should be
stopped? Do you think it should be regulated?
Malicious Software
A cracker is a computer criminal who creates and distributes
malicious programs or malware, which is short for malicious
software. Malware is specifically designed to damage or
disrupt a computer system. The three most common types of
malware are viruses, worms, and Trojan horses.
Viruses are programs that migrate through networks and
operating systems, and mostly attach themselves to other
programs and databases. Although some viruses are
relatively harmless, many can be quite destructive. Once
reset page 559
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
activated, these destructive viruses can alter and/or
delete files.
Worms are programs that simply replicate themselves over
and over again. Once active in a network, the self-
replicating activity clogs computers and networks until
their operations are slowed or stopped. Unlike a virus, a
worm typically does not attach itself to a program or alter
and/or delete files. Worms, however, can carry a virus.
Once a virus has been deposited by a worm onto an
unsuspecting computer system, the virus will either
activate immediately or lie dormant until some future time.
Trojan horses are programs that appear to be harmless;
however, they contain malicious programs. Trojan horses are
not viruses. Like worms, however, they can be carriers of
viruses. The most common types of Trojan horses appear as
free computer games and free antivirus software that can be
downloaded from the Internet. When a user installs one of
these programs, the Trojan horse also secretly installs a
virus on the computer system. The virus then begins its
mischief. Some of the most common Trojan horses claim to
provide free antivirus programs. When a user downloads one
of these programs, the Trojan horse first installs a virus
that locates and disables any existing virus protection
programs before depositing other viruses.
Malicious Hardware
Criminals use computer hardware to steal information, infect
computers with malicious software, and disrupt computer
systems. The most common malicious hardware includes zombie
botnets, rogue Wi-Fi hotspots, and infected USB flash drives.
Zombies are computers infected by a virus, worm, or Trojan
horse that allows them to be remotely controlled for
malicious purposes. A collection of zombie computers is
known as a botnet, or robot network. Botnets harness the
reset page 560
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
combined power of many zombies for malicious activities
like password cracking, denial of service attacks, or
sending junk e-mail. Because they are formed by many
computers distributed across the Internet, botnets are hard
to shut down even after they are detected. Unfortunately
for individual computer owners, it also can be difficult to
detect when a personal computer has been compromised.
Rogue Wi-Fi hotspots imitate free Wi-Fi networks. These
rogue networks operate close to the legitimate free
hotspots and typically provide stronger signals that many
users unsuspectingly connect to. Once connected, the rogue
networks capture any and all information sent by page 226
the users to legitimate sites, including user names
and passwords.
Infected USB flash drives contain viruses and other
malicious software. Crackers typically leave these drives
in public spaces in the hope that others will find them,
plug them into their computer, and become infected.
Infected drives have also been found distributed for free
at conferences and slipped into people’s mailboxes.
concept check
What is social engineering? What is phishing?
What is malicious software? A cracker? Viruses? Worms? Trojan horses?
What is malicious hardware? Zombies? Botnets? Rogue Wi-Fi hotspots?
Infected USB flash drives?
Measures to Protect Computer Security
There are numerous ways in which computer systems and data
can be compromised and many ways to ensure computer security.
The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act makes it a crime for
unauthorized persons even to view—let alone copy or damage—
data using any computer across state lines. It also prohibits
reset page 561
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
unauthorized use of any government computer or a computer
used by any federally insured financial institution.
Offenders can be sentenced up to 20 years in prison and fined
up to $100,000. However, the best protection for computer
security is to be prepared. Some of the principal measures to
ensure computer security are restricting access, encrypting
data, anticipating disasters, and preventing data loss.
Restricting Access Security experts are constantly devising
ways to protect computer systems from access by unauthorized
persons. Sometimes security is a matter of putting guards on
company computer rooms and checking the identification of
everyone admitted. However, the most common way to restrict
access is the use of a password. Passwords are secret words
or phrases (including numbers, letters, and special
characters) that must be keyed into a computer system to gain
access. For many applications on the web, users assign their
own passwords.
tips
Security professionals warn that most people use passwords that
are too easily guessed. They categorize passwords as weak
(easily guessed) or strong (difficult to guess). A weak
password can be guessed in a matter of seconds; a strong one
would take years to crack. Make sure you have a strong password
by employing the following tips when creating a password.
1
Use a password with at least eight characters. The fewer the
characters, the easier it is to guess.
2
Do not use your user name, real name, or company name in your
password. The first thing a cracker will try is variations of your
personal information.
3
Do not use a complete word. Using a computer, a cracker can easily
try every word in the dictionary as a password guess.
reset page 562
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
4
Do not reuse passwords. If a user’s password for one account is
compromised, crackers will attempt to use that password on the
user’s other accounts.
5
Create a password that contains at least one of each of the
following characters: uppercase letter, lowercase letter, number,
and symbol.
The strength of a password depends on how easily it can be
guessed. A dictionary attack uses software to try thousands
of common words sequentially to gain unauthorized access to a
user’s account. For this reason, words, names, and simple
numeric patterns make weak or poor passwords. Strong
passwords have at least eight characters and use a
combination of letters, numbers, and symbols.
Newer technology allows access to be restricted by
passwords that do not require secret words or phrases.
Windows 10 includes an application, Picture page 227
Password, that accepts a series of gestures over
a picture of the user’s choice to gain access. Other times,
biometric scanning devices such as fingerprint and iris (eye)
scanners are used to access restricted data. (See Figure 9-
9.) Numerous applications use face recognition to allow
access to a computer system. For example, Microsoft’s
Windows 11 and Apple’s iOS 15 include facial recognition
software, which uses specialized cameras to identify users
and automatically log them in. There are also several face
recognition apps for mobile devices, including True Key by
McAfee and Intel Security Group.
reset page 563
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 9-9 Biometric scanning devices
(left): Prostock-studio/Shutterstock (right): Michael Dwyer/Alamy Stock Photo
ethics
When you lock your cell phone, it encrypts your data so that no one
else can see your data without unlocking your phone. This also allows
criminals to hide information on their cell phones from the police.
Some software companies have discovered flaws in cell phone security
and sell software that exploit these flaws and break open locked cell
phones. U.S. law enforcement agencies have used this software to break
open criminals’ cell phones.
Unfortunately this software is also purchased and used by dictators
and tyrants to spy on their populace and imprison political dissenters.
Does a company that discovers a security flaw have an ethical
responsibility to not exploit the flaw, but instead work with cell
phone companies to eliminate the flaw? Should there be limitations on
the tools U.S. agencies can purchase, if that purchase helps a company
that helps dictators?
As mentioned in previous chapters, individuals and
organizations use a variety of ways to perform and automate
important security tasks:
Security suites provide a collection of utility programs
designed to protect your privacy and security while you are
reset page 564
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
on the web. These programs alert users when certain kinds
of viruses and worms enter their system. Two of the most
widely used are Avast! Free Antivirus and Microsoft Windows
Defender. Unfortunately, new viruses are being developed
all the time, and not all viruses can be detected. The best
way to stay current is through services that keep track of
viruses on a daily basis. For example, Symantec, McAfee,
and Microsoft all track the most serious virus threats.
(See Figure 9-10.)
Firewalls act as a security buffer between a corporation’s
private network and all external networks, including the
Internet. All electronic communications coming into and
leaving the corporation must pass through the company’s
firewall, where they are evaluated. Security is maintained
by denying access to unauthorized communications.
Password managers help you create strong passwords.
Additionally, they will store all your passwords in one
location and automatically provide the appropriate password
when requested from one of your favorite sites. This avoids
many of the mistakes people make in generating and
remembering passwords. However, this master list of
passwords is protected by one ”master” password. If you
forget or reveal this master password, you open yourself up
to considerable risk.
Authentication is the process of ensuring the page 228
identity of a user. When you enter a password to
gain access to a site, that is a single authentication of
your identity. For added security, some security systems
require multiple authentications. Two-factor
authentication uses two types (or factors) of data to
verify your identity. These types of data include knowledge
(such as a password or the answer to a security question),
possession (such as your cell phone or credit card), and
biometric data (such as a finger print or voice print).
Two-step authentication uses one type of authentication
reset page 565
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
twice (such as asking for two knowledge-based
authentications such as a password and the answer to a
security question). While both types are more secure that a
single authenication, two-factor authentication is
considered more secure than two-step authentication—and
both are more secure than a single authentication.
Figure 9-10 Tracking viruses
Microsoft Corporation
tips
Has your cell phone ever been lost or stolen? If so, then you
not only are without the device, but you also have lost any
data (photos, contact lists, etc.). To avoid this, you need to
take some action before your cell phone goes missing. Consider
the following suggestions.
1
Find your phone. Set up your phone so that you can see a map of
where your phone is and remotely turn on an alarm, secure the
device, and even erase the contents of your cell phone.
For Android cell phones: Click on the Settings icon from the
home screen and then choose Security & Lock Screen and Device
reset page 566
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
administrators. Finally, tap on Find My Device. If your phone
goes missing, go to android.com/find to find or remotely secure
your device.
For iOS cell phones: Click on the Settings icon from the home
screen and then select your Apple ID at the top of the screen.
Select iCloud and turn on the button for Find My iPhone. If
your phone goes missing, sign in to icloud.com/find to find or
remotely secure your device.
2
Back up your phone. Automatically back up your cell phone data to
the cloud, so even if you cannot recover your phone, your data
will not be lost. To enable these features, you will need an
iCloud or Google Drive account.
For Android cell phones: Click on the Settings icon from the
home screen and then choose Backup. Turn on the button for
Backup to Google Drive.
For iOS cell phones: Click on the Settings icon from the home
screen and then select your Apple ID at the top of the screen.
Select iCloud and turn on the button for iCloud Backup.
Encrypting Data Whenever information is sent over a network
or stored on a computer system, the possibility of
unauthorized access exists. The solution is encryption, the
process of coding information to make it unreadable except to
those who have a special piece of information known as an
encryption key, or, simply, a key. Some common uses for
encryption include
E-mail encryption: Protects e-mail messages as they move
across the Internet. One of the most widely used personal
e-mail encryption programs is Pretty Good Privacy. (See
Figure 9-11.)
File encryption: Protects sensitive files by encrypting
them before they are stored on a hard drive. Files can be
encrypted individually, or specialized software can be used
to encrypt all files automatically each time they page 229
are saved to a certain hard drive location. (See
Figure 9-12.)
reset page 567
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Website encryption: Secures web transactions, especially
financial transactions. Web pages that accept passwords or
confidential information like a credit card number are
often encrypted.
As we discussed in Chapters 2 and 8, https (hypertext
transfer protocol secure) is the most widely used Internet
protocol. This protocol requires that the browser and the
connecting site encrypt all messages, providing a safer and
more secure transmission.
Virtual private networks: Virtual private networks (VPNs)
encrypt connections between company networks and remote
users such as workers connecting from home. This connection
creates a secure virtual connection to a company LAN across
the Internet.
Wireless network encryption: Restricts access to page 230
authorized users on wireless networks. WPA2 (Wi-Fi
Protected Access) is the most widely used wireless network
encryption for home wireless networks. WPA2 is typically
established for a wireless network through the network’s
wireless router. Although the specifics vary between
routers, WPA2 is usually set through the router’s settings
options.
reset page 568
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 9-11 Encrypted e-mail
Enigmail
reset page 569
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 9-12 File encryption
Apple, Inc.
Anticipating Disasters Companies (and even individuals)
should prepare themselves for disasters. Physical security is
concerned with protecting hardware from possible human and
natural disasters. Data security is concerned with protecting
software and data from unauthorized tampering or damage. Most
large organizations have disaster recovery plans describing
ways to continue operating until normal computer operations
can be restored.
Preventing Data Loss Equipment can always be replaced. A
company’s data, however, may be irreplaceable. Most
companies have ways of trying to keep software and data from
being tampered with in the first place. They include careful
screening of job applicants, guarding of passwords, and
auditing of data and programs from time to time. Some systems
use redundant storage to prevent loss of data even when a
hard drive fails. We discussed RAID in Chapter 7, which is a
reset page 570
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
commonly used type of redundant storage. Backup batteries
protect against data loss due to file corruption during
unexpected power outages.
Making frequent backups of data is essential to prevent
data loss. Backups are often stored at an off-site location
to protect data in case of theft, fire, flood, or other
disasters. Students and others often use flash drives and
cloud storage, as discussed in Chapter 7, to back up homework
and important papers. Incremental backups store multiple
versions of data at different points in time to prevent data
loss due to unwanted changes or accidental deletion.
To see what you should do to protect yourself, see Making
IT Work for You: Security and Technology on pages 232–233.
See Figure 9-13 for a summary of the different measures to
protect computer security.
Measure Description
Restricting access Limit access to authorized persons
using such measures as passwords,
picture passwords, and biometric
scanning.
Encrypting data Code all messages sent over a network.
Anticipating Prepare for disasters by ensuring
disasters physical security and data security
through a disaster recovery plan.
Preventing data loss Routinely copy data and store it at a
remote location.
Figure 9-13 Measures to protect computer security
concept check
Define each of the following: password, dictionary attack, Picture
Password, biometric scanning, facial recognition, security suite,
firewall, and password manager.
What are encryption and an encryption key? What is https? What is a
reset page 571
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
VPN? WPA2?
Define physical security, data security, and disaster recovery plans.
Describe how to prevent data loss.
page 231
Ethics
New technologies create new opportunities and interactions
for everyone. For a criminal, these new opportunities may
include new computer crimes to commit. For a police officer,
this means new cybercrime laws and new ways to serve and
protect. As we explore the impact of digital identities and
digital lives, we must reexamine our standards of moral
conduct, or ethics, in the context of these new opportunities
and interactions. Computer ethics are guidelines for the
morally acceptable use of computers in our society. Ethical
treatment is critically important to us all, and we are all
entitled to ethical treatment. This includes the right to
keep personal information, such as credit ratings and medical
histories, from getting into unauthorized hands. These
issues, largely under the control of corporations and
government agencies, were covered earlier in this chapter,
and many more have been addressed in the Ethics boxes
throughout this book. Now we’ll examine three important
issues in computer ethics where average users have a role to
play.
Cyberbullying
A fairly recent and all-too-common phenomenon, cyberbullying
is the use of the Internet to send or post content intended
to hurt or embarrass another person. Although not always a
crime, it can lead to criminal prosecution. Cyberbullying
reset page 572
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
includes sending repeated unwanted e-mails to an individual
who has stated that he or she wants no further contact with
the sender, ganging up on victims in electronic forums,
posting false statements designed to injure the reputation of
another, maliciously disclosing personal data about a person
that could lead to harm to that person, and sending any type
of communication that is threatening or harassing. Never
participate in cyberbullying, and discourage others from
participating in this dangerous and hateful activity. If you
or someone you know is the victim of cyberbullying, go to
stopbullying.gov for help and advice.
Copyright and Digital Rights Management
A copyright is a legal concept that gives content creators
the right to control use and distribution of their work.
Materials that can be copyrighted include paintings, books,
music, films, and even video games. Some users choose to make
unauthorized copies of digital media, which violates
copyright. For example, making an unauthorized copy of a
digital music file for a friend might be a copyright
violation.Software
piracy is the unauthorized copying and/or
distribution of software. According to a recent study,
software piracy costs the software industry over $60 billion
annually. To prevent copyright violations, corporations often
use digital rights management (DRM). DRM encompasses various
technologies that control access to electronic media and
files. Typically, DRM is used to (1) control the number of
devices that can access a given file and (2) limit the kinds
of devices that can access a file. Although some companies
see DRM as a necessity to protect their rights, some users
feel they should have the right to use the media they buy—
including movies, music, software, and video games—as they
choose.
reset page 573
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
ethics
Net neutrality is the policy that ISPs should deliver all data to
customers at the same speed, regardless of the content. Opponents of
net neutrality would allow ISPs to charge companies to deliver some
websites faster, arguing that ISPs should be allowed to charge however
they like. Proponents of net neutrality argue that the Internet has
always had equal and unbiased access to information and that allowing
ISPs to vary access to websites based on content is a new form of
censorship. What do you think? Is net neutrality an important defense
of Internet freedom of speech, or is it government overreach looking to
hinder free markets?
The Digital Millennium Copyright Act makes it illegal to
deactivate or otherwise disable any antipiracy technologies,
including DRM technologies. The act also establishes that
copies of commercial programs may not be legally resold or
given away. It further makes it a crime to sell or to use
programs or devices that are used to illegally copy software.
This may come as a surprise to those who copy software,
movies, or music from a friend or from the Internet. The law
is clear: It is illegal to copy or download copyright-
protected music and videos from the Internet without
appropriate authorization.
Today, there are many legal sources for digital media.
Television programs can be watched online, often for free, on
television-network-sponsored sites. Sites like page 232
Pandora allow listeners to enjoy music at no cost.
There are several online stores for purchasing music and
video content. A pioneer in this area is Apple’s iTunes
Music Store. (See Figure 9-14.)
reset page 574
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 9-14 iTunes Music Store
Apple, Inc.
Making IT work for you
SECURITY AND TECHNOLOGY
The news is filled with instances of cybercrime. From
hacked e-mail to stolen identities, it’s a dangerous
digital world. Thankfully, there are a lot of precautions
you as an individual can and should take to make sure that
you aren’t the victim of high-tech criminals.
reset page 575
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Here are some guidelines for keeping yourself safe from computer
crime.
Update software
Your operating system, web browser, and applications are constantly
improving to reduce the risk of malware infection. Be sure that your
devices are up to date. Look into the setting of your PC, tablet, and
phone—most devices have the option to check for software updates and
to opt in to automatically updating software.
Apple Inc.
Regularly back up your data
Criminals may infect your computer with ransomeware—software that
encrypts your data and demands a payment for the password to get the
data back. Without regular backups, you may lose data that can’t be
replaced—precious photos, important documents, and months of work on
projects. However, with a backup, you can restore your data within
minutes. Most operating systems offer automated cloud backups that are
easy to set up and effortless once in place.
Be careful when browsing
Always think before you click. Don’t download software from sites you
are not familiar with or don’t trust. Don’t assume that a pop-up
alert or warning is legitimate—scams and malware are often disguised
as legitimate plug-ins or updates. When updating software, use the
operating system’s app store.
reset page 576
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Backblaze
Be alert to e-mail scams
E-mail scammers are notorious for trying to get people to send them
personal information that is then used to steal identities (phishing).
If you get an e-mail requesting money, a credit card number, a Social
Security number, a password, or any other personal information—be
very cautious—most reputable institutions will not request such
information by e-mail. Further, be careful opening e-mail or
attachments from strangers—this is a common way to spread Internet
viruses.
Use antivirus software
page 233
There are many free or inexpensive antivirus software packages
available. Be sure to update the antivirus software regularly (or
automate the update process) to make sure the software is up to date.
reset page 577
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Google, INC.
Set up strong passwords
Common passwords, such as “password” or “love,” are a criminal’s
best friend. To make your passwords as secure as possible, do not use
common words or phrases and use a combination of lowercase and
uppercase letters, symbols, and numbers. You can also have secure
passwords suggested to you by a password management system—macOS
comes with Keychain and Internet browsers Google Chrome and Microsoft
Edge include password managers.
Protect against data breaches
A data breach is when criminals break into a company’s database and
sell or leak the account information found there. To reduce the risk
of having your accounts infiltrated by hackers, frequently change your
passwords, and do not reuse the same password on multiple accounts.
Enable two-factor authentication
Most security-minded applications or websites have the option for two-
factor authentication, especially online banking, financial services,
webmail, social media sites, and cloud services. However, you must
often go the extra step of enabling this process. Two-factor
authentication is one of the best ways to ensure that your privacy and
identity remain secure.
reset page 578
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
page 234
ethics
Do you know of anyone who has copied parts of a web page from a variety
of sites and combined the parts to form a term paper? Of course, such a
practice is unethical and most likely illegal. Many schools and
universities now use a program that can compare the content of a
student’s paper to published material on the web and to previously
submitted papers. Do you think it is ethical for instructors to employ
a program that checks for plagiarism? Is there a risk that the program
may confuse proper citations from the web with obvious cases of
plagiarism?
Plagiarism
Another ethical issue is plagiarism, which means representing
some other person’s work and ideas as your own without
giving credit to the original source. Although plagiarism was
a problem long before the invention of computers, computer
technology has made plagiarism easier. For example, simply
cutting and pasting content from a web page into a report or
paper may seem tempting to an overworked student or employee.
Correspondingly, computer technology has made it easier
than ever to recognize and catch plagiarists. For example,
services such as Turnitin are dedicated to preventing
Internet plagiarism. This service will examine the content of
a paper and compare it to a wide range of known public
electronic documents, including web page content. In this
way, Turnitin can identify an undocumented paper or even
parts of an undocumented paper. (See Figure 9-15.)
reset page 579
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Figure 9-15 Turnitin website
Turnitin
concept check
What is the distinction between ethics and computer ethics?
Define copyright, software privacy, digital rights management, and the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
What is cyberbullying? What is plagiarism? What is Turnitin and what
does it do?
page 235
Careers in IT
“Now
that you have learned about privacy, security, and
ethics, let me tell you about my career as an IT security
reset page 580
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
analyst.”
Ariel Skelley/Getty Images
IT security analysts are responsible for maintaining the
security of a company’s networks, systems, and data. Their
goal is to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of information. These analysts must safeguard
information systems against a variety of external threats,
such as crackers and viruses, as well as be vigilant of
threats that may come from within the company.
Employers typically look for candidates with a
bachelor’s or associate’s degree in information systems
or computer science. Experience in this field or in network
administration is usually required. IT security analysts
should possess good communication and research skills and
be able to handle high-stress situations.
IT security analysts can expect to earn an annual salary
of $49,000 to $99,000. Opportunities for advancement
typically depend on experience. Demand for this position is
expected to grow as malware, crackers, and other types of
threats become more complex and prevalent.
page 236
reset page 581
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
A LOOK TO THE FUTURE
End of Anonymity
Do you use the Internet anonymously? Do you post photos or tweet without
revealing your name? Some people anonymously post horrible, dangerous, and
even criminal things on the Internet. Should anonymity protect us and
others from public scrutiny and possible criminal prosecution? Should we
sacrifice some or all of our anonymity for a safer, more civil discourse
on the web?
Have you ever thought about how your digital actions might be linked to
your real-world life? Imagine a future where your digital and real-world
lives blend, and neither has space for anonymous interaction. The Internet
has always had a challenging relationship with anonymity. Free speech
advocates praise anonymous speech, allowing citizens in oppressive regimes
to meet and share ideas without fear of government reprisal. In contrast,
security advocates argue that the same tools that allow for free speech in
dictatorships also allow terrorists to plan attacks against democracies.
In the future, we are likely to see an ever-decreasing level of anonymity.
Companies and Internet service providers already buy and sell your web
browsing habits and online purchase history to better advertise and sell
things to you. In the future, your browsing habits will likely follow you
into the real world, and your real-world actions will filter into your
digital persona.
HQuality/Shutterstock
reset page 582
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
In the future, when you visit a mall, security cameras will recognize
you and track your path using facial recognition and update your online
identity. This personal digital footprint will be continuously updated
based on social media postings, Internet browsing history, and credit card
purchases. Sensors in your clothes will tell stores what brands you like
and how much you spend.
Imagine, as computers analyze your path through the mall, a link is
made between your recent social media posts about your new exercise
routine. A sporting goods store just three shops ahead of you takes
notice. Instantly, your cell phone buzzes with a coupon for the store with
25 percent off for first-time customers. It may seem like coincidence, but
in a world without anonymity, there is no coincidence.
As you return home with your new treadmill, the sporting goods store
posts to your Facebook wall, congratulating you on your first steps to a
healthier you. It offers each of your Facebook friends a 20 percent off
coupon to join you in making healthy life choices. Your Internet-connected
treadmill posts your fitness progress on Twitter, describing the duration
and intensity of your workouts. Your web-connected scale shows the pounds
coming off. Your health insurance company, monitoring your scale’s
recordings, gives you a discount on your insurance rates based on your
lower weight. Your boss sees your treadmill posts and praises you at the
next meeting, encouraging other employees to learn from your example and
improve their lives through discipline and effort. However, this raises
the question: What will your boss think if you stop running on the
treadmill? Can you afford to add pounds on the scale if your insurance
rates will skyrocket? What do you think: Is this world without anonymity
better?
page 237
Privacy, Security,
VISUAL SUMMARY
and Ethics
PRIVACY
reset page 583
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Acxiom
The three primary privacy issues: accuracy, property,
access.
Big Data
The ever-growing volume of data collected about us is
often referred to as big data. Information resellers
(information brokers) collect and sell personal data.
Mistaken identity occurs when the digital footprint
of one person is switched with another. The Freedom of
Information Act entitles individuals access to
governmental records relating to them.
Private Networks
Many organizations monitor employee e-mail and computer
files using special software called employee-monitoring
software.
The Internet and the Web
Many people believe that, while using the web, little can
be done to invade their privacy. This is called the
illusion of anonymity. The deep web is comprised of
websites that are hidden from standard search engines and
provide secure and anonymous communication. The dark web
is a part of the deep web comprised of sites that use
reset page 584
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
special software to hide their IP addresses, making it
nearly impossible to identify who is using it.
PRIVACY
Piotr Swat/Shutterstock
Information stored by browsers includes history files
(record of sites visited) and temporary Internet files
or browser cache (contain website content and display
instructions). Cookies store and track information.
Privacy mode (Private browsing) ensures that your
browsing activity is not recorded.
Spyware secretly records and reports Internet
activities. Keyloggers (one type of computer monitoring
software) records every activity and keystroke.
Antispyware (spy removal programs) detects and removes
various privacy threats.
Online Identity
Many people post personal information and sometimes
intimate details of their lives without considering the
consequences. This creates an online identity. With the
archiving and search features of the web, this identity
reset page 585
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
is indefinitely available to anyone who cares to look for
it.
Major Laws on Privacy
The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act protects personal financial
information, the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) protects medical records, and
the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
restricts disclosure of educational records.
page 238
To efficiently and effectively use computers, you need
to be aware of the potential impact of technology on
people. You need to be sensitive to and knowledgeable
about personal privacy, organizational security, and
ethics.
SECURITY
Michael Dwyer/Alamy Stock Photo
Computer security focuses on protecting information,
hardware, and software from unauthorized use as well as
reset page 586
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
preventing damage from intrusions, sabotage, and natural
disasters.
Cybercrime
Cybercrime (computer crime) is a criminal offense
involving a computer or network. (Cyberterrorism is a
politically motivated cybercrime.) Some types of
cybercrime are identity theft, Internet scams, data
manipulation, ransomware, denial of service (DoS)
attack, and distributed denial of service (DDoS)
attack.
Social Engineering
Social engineering is the practice of manipulating
people to divulge private data. Phishing attempts to
trick people into believing a fake website is real.
Malicious Software
Crackers create and distribute malware (malicious
software). The three most common types are
Viruses migrate through networks and operating
systems; can alter and/or delete files.
Worms repeatedly replicate themselves, clogging
computers and networks.
Trojan horses appear harmless but contain malicious
programs.
SECURITY
Malicious Hardware
Cyber criminals can use computer hardware to steal
information. Three types of malicious hardware:
reset page 587
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Zombies—remotely controlled computers used for
malicious purposes; a collection is known as a botnet
(robot network).
Rogue Wi-Fi hotspots—network that appears to be a
legitimate free Wi-Fi hotspot. Once connected, any
input by users is captured.
Infected USB flash drives—USB drives that are often
free that contain a virus.
Measures to Protect Computer Security
The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act makes it a crime for
unauthorized persons to view data across state lines
using computers and prohibits unauthorized use of
computers owned by government or federally insured
financial institution. Ways to protect computer security
include limiting access, encrypting, and anticipating
disasters.
Access can be restricted through biometric scanning
devices and passwords (dictionary attacks use
thousands of words to attempt to gain access; Picture
Password uses series of gestures; facial recognition
limits access); security suites, firewalls, password
managers, and authentication (two-factor
authentication uses two types of data to verify your
identity; two-step authentication uses one type of
authentication twice).
Encrypting is coding information to make it unreadable
except to those who have the encryption key. Hypertext
transfer protocol secure (https) requires browsers and
websites to encrypt all messages. Virtual private
networks (VPNs) encrypt connections between company
networks and remote users. WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected
Access) is the most widely used wireless network
encryption for home wireless networks.
reset page 588
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Anticipating disasters involves physical security, data
security, and disaster recovery plans.
Preventing data loss involves protecting data by
screening job applicants, guarding passwords, and
auditing and backing up data.
page 239
ETHICS
Apple, Inc.
What do you suppose controls how computers can be used?
You probably think first of laws. Of course, that is
right, but technology is moving so fast that it is very
difficult for our legal system to keep up. The essential
element that controls how computers are used today is
ethics.
Computer ethics are guidelines for the morally
acceptable use of computers in our society. We are all
entitled to ethical treatment. This includes the right to
reset page 589
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
keep personal information, such as credit ratings and
medical histories, from getting into unauthorized hands.
Cyberbullying
Cyberbullying is the use of the Internet to send or post
content intended to hurt or embarrass another person. It
includes sending repeated unwanted e-mails to an
individual, ganging up on victims in electronic forums,
posting false statements, maliciously disclosing personal
data, and sending any type of threatening or harassing
communication. It can lead to criminal prosecution.
Copyright and Digital Rights Management
A copyright is a legal concept that gives content
creators the right to control use and distribution of
their work. Materials that can be copyrighted include
paintings, books, music, films, and even video games.
Software piracy is the unauthorized copying and
distribution of software. The software industry loses
over $60 billion annually to software piracy. Two related
topics are the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and
digital rights management.
The Digital Millennium Copyright Act makes it illegal
to deactivate or disable antipiracy technologies; to
copy, resell, or give away commercial programs; or to
sell or use programs or devices that are illegally
copying software.
ETHICS
reset page 590
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Turnitin
Digital rights management (DRM) is a collection of
technologies designed to prevent copyright violations.
Typically, DRM is used to (1) control the number of
devices that can access a given file and (2) limit the
kinds of devices that can access a file.
Today, many legal sources for digital media exist,
including
Television programs that can be watched online, often
for free, on television-network-sponsored sites.
Sites like Pandora that allow listeners to enjoy music
at no cost.
Online stores that legally sell music and video
content. A pioneer in this area is Apple’s iTunes
Music Store.
Plagiarism
Plagiarism is the illegal and unethical representation
of some other person’s work and ideas as your own
without giving credit to the original source. Examples
include cutting and pasting web content into a report or
paper.
Recognizing and catching plagiarists is relatively
easy. For example, services such as Turnitin are
reset page 591
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
dedicated to preventing Internet plagiarism. This service
examines a paper’s content and compares it to a wide
range of known public electronic documents including web
page content. Exact duplication or paraphrasing is
readily identified.
CAREERS in IT
IT security analysts are responsible for maintaining the
security of a company’s network, systems, and data.
Employers look for candidates with a bachelor’s or
associate’s degree in information systems or computer
science and network experience. Expected salary range is
$49,000 to $99,000.
page 240
KEY TERMS
access (217)
accuracy (217)
antispyware (222)
authentication (228)
big data (217)
biometric scanning (227)
botnet (225)
browser cache (220)
computer crime (223)
reset page 592
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
computer ethics (231)
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (226)
computer monitoring software (221)
cookie (220)
copyright (231)
cracker (225)
cyberbullying (231)
cybercrime (223)
cyberterrorism (223)
dark web (219)
data manipulation (224)
data security (230)
deep web (219)
denial of service (DoS) attack (224)
dictionary attack (226)
digital footprint (217)
Digital Millennium Copyright Act (231)
digital rights management (DRM) (231)
disaster recovery plan (230)
distributed denial of service (DDoS) (224)
employee-monitoring software (219)
encryption (228)
encryption key (228)
ethics (231)
facial recognition (227)
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (223)
firewall (227)
first-party cookie (220)
Freedom of Information Act (219)
reset page 593
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (223)
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA) (223)
history file (219)
https (hypertext transfer protocol secure) (229)
identity theft (223)
illusion of anonymity (219)
Incognito Mode (221)
infected USB flash drive (226)
information broker (217)
information reseller (217)
Internet scam (223)
IT security analyst (235)
key (228)
keylogger (222)
malware (malicious software) (225)
mistaken identity (218)
online identity (222)
password (226)
password manager (227)
phishing (225)
physical security (230)
Picture Password (227)
plagiarism (234)
plagiarist (234)
privacy (217)
privacy mode (221)
Private Browsing (221)
property (217)
reset page 594
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
ransomware (224)
robot network (225)
rogue Wi-Fi hotspot (225)
security (223)
security suite (227)
social engineering (225)
software piracy (231)
spy removal program (222)
spyware (221)
temporary Internet file (220)
third-party cookie (220)
tracking cookie (220)
Trojan horse (225)
two-factor authentication (228)
two-step authentication (228)
virtual private network (VPN) (229)
virus (225)
web bug (221)
wireless network encryption (230)
worm (225)
WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access 2) (230)
zombie (225)
page 241
MULTIPLE CHOICE
reset page 595
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Circle the correct answer.
1. Privacy concern that relates to the responsibility to
ensure correct data collection.
a. accuracy
b. access
c. history
d. identity
2. Individuals who collect and sell personal data.
a. information brokers
b. Trojan horses
c. phishers
d. DRM
3. Small data files deposited on your hard disk from
websites you have visited.
a. digital footprints
b. online identities
c. cookies
d. crackers
4. Wide range of programs that secretly record and report
an individual’s activities on the Internet.
a. spyware
b. viruses
c. zombies
d. web bugs
5. Malicious programs that damage or disrupt a computer
system.
a. zombies
b. malware
c. cookies
reset page 596
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
d. firewalls
6. Infected computers that can be remotely controlled.
a. Trojan horses
b. zombies
c. crackers
d. WPA2
7. Used by scammers to trick Internet users with official-
looking websites.
a. online identity
b. history file
c. phishing
d. Trojan horse
8. A type of scanning device such as fingerprint and iris
(eye) scanner.
a. phishing
b. biometric
c. firewall
d. web bug
9. Process of coding information to make it unreadable
except to those who have a key.
a. phishing
b. spyware
c. dark web
d. encryption
10. An ethical issue relating to using another person’s
work and ideas as your own without giving credit to the
original source.
a. phishing
b. identity theft
c. key logging
reset page 597
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
d. plagiarism
page 242
MATCHING
Match each numbered item with the most closely related
lettered item. Write your answers in the spaces provided.
a. acce ss 1. Special hardware and
b. digital software used to
control access to a
footprints
corporation’s private
c. history file
network is known as
d. privacy
a(n) .
e. online
2. The information that
identity
people voluntarily
f. crackers post in social
g. Trojan horses networking sites,
blogs, and photo- and
h. cyberbullying
video-sharing sites is
i. firewall
used to create their
j. DRM .
3. Browsers store the
locations of sites
vis ited in a .
4. The browser mode
that ensures your
reset page 598
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
browsing activity is
not recorded.
5. Highly detailed and
personalized
descriptions of
individuals are
e lectronic .
6. To prevent copyright
violations,
corporations often use
.
7. The use of the
Internet to send or
post content intended
to hurt or embarrass
another person is
known as .
8. Computer criminals
who create and
distribute malicious
programs.
9. Programs that come
into a computer system
disguised as something
else are called
.
10. The three primary
privacy issues are
accuracy, property,
and .
reset page 599
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
page 243
OPEN-ENDED
On a separate sheet of paper, respond to each question or
statement.
1. Define privacy, and discuss the impact of large
databases, private networks, the Internet, and the web.
2. Define and discuss online identity and the major privacy
laws.
3. Define security. Define cybercrime, social engineering,
malicious software, and malicious hardware including
identity theft, Internet scams, data manipulation,
ransomware, DoS attacks, viruses, worms, Trojan horses,
zombies, rogue Wi-Fi hotspots, and infected USB flash
drives.
4. Discuss ways to protect computer security including
restricting access, encrypting data, anticipating
disasters, and preventing data loss.
5. Define computer ethics, copyright law, cyberbullying,
and plagiarism.
DISCUSSION
Respond to each of the following questions.
reset page 600
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Making IT Work for You: SECURITY AND
1
TECHNOLOGY
Review the Making IT Work for You: Security and Technology on pages
232–233, and then respond to the following: (a) Check your phone,
tablet, laptop, or desktop to find out what version OS it is using. (b)
Go online and search to find out if that is the most recent OS. Is your
OS up to date? (c) Does your device have the option to automatically
download updates to the OS? (d) Does your device come with a password
manager? Have you used it? Why or why not?
Community: SOCIAL NETWORKING
3
Review the Community box on page 218, and then answer the following: (a)
Do you use any social networking sites? If so, which ones and do you
know their policy of sharing your posts and photos to others without
your express consent? (b) Do you believe that social networks violate
your privacy when they share information with advertisers? Why or why
not? (c) Suppose that a high school teacher posts photos on Instagram
showing her drinking at a party. When the school board becomes aware of
these photos, the teacher is suspended. Is this a violation of her
rights? Why or why not? (d) In late 2009, Facebook allowed users’
names, pictures, and basic information to appear in Google search
results. Do you think this is ethical? Why or why not?
page 244
Privacy: PRIVATE BROWSING
2
Review the Privacy box on page 221 and then respond to the following:
(a) Have you ever used the privacy mode on your web browser? What is the
name of the company that makes your browser? What is the name your
browser uses for its privacy mode? (b) Each browser defines private
browsing a little differently. Search online to see how your browser
explains how privacy mode works. How does your browser protect your
privacy in privacy mode? (c) Privacy mode changes what is recorded on
your device; however, computers other than your own are involved when
you browse the web and may still record your activities. What companies
or people would still know your activities if you search on Google?
Check your work webmail? Purchase an item on Amazon?
reset page 601
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------
Ethics: ENCRYPTION
4
Review the Ethics box on page 222, and then respond to the following:
(a) What is your opinion on unbreakable encryption? Should it be
illegal? Defend your position. (b) If a phone was believed to hold
information about a planned terrorist attack, would you support building
a backdoor to encryption that would allow the government to search the
phone? What if you knew that the backdoor technique would eventually be
leaked and available to everyone? What if the government involved
considered terrorism to include the possession of documents criticizing
the government?
Ethics: NET NEUTRALITY
5
Review the Ethics box on page 231, and then respond to the following:
(a) Do you think that government agencies should be allowed to regulate
ISP pricing policies? Why or why not? (b) Do you think the speed or ease
of access of web pages can be a form of censorship? Why or why not? (c)
If a government made anti-government websites run slower, would that be
censorship? Why or why not? (d) If a company made its competitions’
websites run slower, would that be censorship? Why or why not? (e)
Should an ISP be allowed to watch you browse the Internet to decide
which web pages should download quickly and which should download
slowly? Defend your position.
Ethics: PLAGIARISM
6
Review the Ethics box on page 234, and then respond to the following:
(a) Do you think it is ethical for instructors to employ a program that
checks for plagiarism? Why or why not? (b) Do you think it is ethical
for students or any individuals to copy all or part of a web page’s
content and then present the information without crediting the source?
Why or why not? (c) How would you distinguish between using the web for
research and plagiarizing web content? Be specific. (d) Does your school
have a policy specifically regarding plagiarism of web content? If yes,
what is the policy? If not, what would you suggest would be an
appropriate policy?
page 245
Tips: IDENTITY THEFT
7
reset page 602
-------------------------------------------- 分页分隔 --------------------------------------------